The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of the American-Irish
Historical Society (Vol. II), by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Journal of the American-Irish Historical Society (Vol. II)

Author: Various

Editor: Thomas Hamilton Murray

Release Date: December 17, 2018 [EBook #58485]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF AMERICAN-IRISH HIST. SOC., VOL 2 ***




Produced by Richard Tonsing, Larry B. Harrison and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)






[Illustration:

  HON. THOMAS J. GARGAN, BOSTON, MASS.,

  PRESIDENT-GENERAL OF THE SOCIETY.
]




                              THE JOURNAL

                                 OF THE

                             AMERICAN-IRISH
                           HISTORICAL SOCIETY


                                   BY

                         THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY

                          _Secretary-General_

                               VOLUME II

                             BOSTON, MASS.
                        PUBLISHED BY THE SOCIETY
                                  1899

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                  INTRODUCTORY NOTE TO SECOND VOLUME.


I take great pleasure in presenting the second volume of the JOURNAL to
the Society. In so doing, I desire to acknowledge many courtesies
received from various sources during its preparation. I have also been
favored with ideas and suggestions regarding the work and, where
practicable, have incorporated the same. The present volume, covering
the year 1899, shows an increase in scope over the preceding one, a fact
typifying the Society’s growth in the field of American historical
organizations.

                                                                T. H. M.

 BOSTON, MASS., Dec. 30, 1899.




                                CONTENTS


          INTRODUCTORY NOTE TO SECOND VOLUME.
          THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
          OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY, 1899.
          CHRONOLOGICAL RECORD OF THE SOCIETY.
          PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY, 1899.
          ADDRESSES MADE AND PAPERS READ.
          A MEETING IN PROVIDENCE, R. I.
          A MEETING IN NEWPORT, R. I.
          A MEETING IN BOSTON, MASS.
          PAPERS CONTRIBUTED TO THE SOCIETY
          MEMBERSHIP ROLL, AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
          THE DEAD OF THE SOCIETY.
          GENERAL INDEX.
          ANALYTICAL INDEX.




                 THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.


WHEN AND WHERE FOUNDED.

The American-Irish Historical Society was founded on the evening of Jan.
20, 1897, at a meeting called for that purpose, and held in the Revere
House, Boston, Mass. Over forty gentlemen were present. The Hon. Thomas
J. Gargan of Boston presided. Thomas Hamilton Murray, then editor of the
_Daily Sun_, Lawrence, Mass., was secretary of the meeting.


THE PRELIMINARY WORK.

The provisional committee that had attended to the preliminary work
included Mr. Murray, just mentioned; James Jeffrey Roche, editor of the
_Boston Pilot_; Joseph Smith, secretary of the police commission,
Lowell, Mass.; Thomas B. Lawler of the publishing house, Ginn & Company,
Boston, Mass., and Hon. John C. Linehan, state insurance commissioner,
Concord, N. H.


OBJECTS AND PURPOSES.

The Society is organized for the special study of the Irish element in
the composition of the American people; to investigate and record the
influence of this element in the upbuilding of the nation, and to
collect and publish facts relating to and illustrating that influence.
The Society aims to correct erroneous, distorted and false views of
history, where they are known, and to substitute therefor the truth of
history, based on documentary evidence and the best and most reasonable
tradition, in relation to the Irish in America.


SPEAKING MORE IN DETAIL.

Speaking more in detail, it may be stated that the objects and purposes
of the Society are: The study of American history generally; to
investigate, specially, the Irish immigration to this country, determine
its numbers, examine the sources, learn the places of its settlement,
and estimate its influence on contemporary events in war, legislation,
religion, education, and other departments of activity; to place the
result of its historical investigations and researches in acceptable
literary form; to print, publish, and distribute its documents to
libraries, educational institutions, and among its members, in order
that the widest dissemination of historical truth may be obtained; to do
its work without passion or prejudice, to view accomplished facts in the
true scientific historical spirit, and having reached the truth to give
it to the world.


MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS.

Any male person of good moral character, who is interested in the
special work of the Society, shall be deemed eligible for membership in
the same. No tests other than that of character and devotion to the
Society’s objects shall be applied to membership. Application blanks may
be obtained of the secretary-general.


THE MODE OF ADMISSION.

The Society believes that for the present as little red tape as possible
should prevail in the admission of applicants. A large membership is
desired. Consequently, a request to be enrolled addressed to the
secretary-general, to any of the members of the Executive Council, or to
a member of the Society who is located in the neighborhood of the
applicant, will generally be sufficient to effect the desired result. It
is recommended, however, that persons desiring admission shall obtain
the blanks provided by the Society, for applicants.


THE FEES OF MEMBERS.

Life members pay $50 in advance at one time; they are exempt from
further membership dues. Annual members pay three dollars per year each.
In the case of new members, of the annual class, their first payment
should be made upon being officially notified of their admission.


NO LINES OF CREED OR POLITICS.

The Society is constructed on a broad and liberal basis. Being an
American organization in spirit and principle, it greets and welcomes to
its ranks Americans of whatever race descent, and of whatever creed, who
take an interest in the special line of work for which the Society is
organized. It at present includes Roman Catholics, Protestant
Episcopalians, Methodists, Presbyterians, Unitarians, and members of
other denominations. Catholic priests and Protestant ministers are on
its roll. There are no creed lines and no politics in the policy of the
organization.


OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY.

The officers comprise a president-general, a vice-president-general, a
secretary-general, a treasurer-general, a librarian and archivist, an
historiographer (not yet elected), and an Executive Council. The
constitution also provides for a vice-president for each state and
territory and for the District of Columbia. It is proposed to eventually
organize state and city chapters of the Society. A list of the present
officers will be found contained herein.


THE FIRST PRESIDENT-GENERAL.

The first president-general of the Society was Richard Worsam Meade, 3d,
rear-admiral, U. S. N. (retired). He was born in New York city, Oct. 9,
1837, at the home of his maternal grandfather, Judge Henry Meigs, which
family has given many officers to the United States navy. He was the
oldest son of the late Capt. Richard Worsam Meade, 2d, U. S. N., and was
a nephew of the late Gen. George Gordon Meade, who for two years
commanded the Army of the Potomac. President-General Meade died in
Washington, D. C., May 4, 1897. His obsequies took place in that city.
The Society contributed a floral harp. Among the mourners there were
present from the Society Edward A. Moseley, secretary of the Interstate
Commerce Commission; Paymaster John R. Carmody, U. S. N.; J. D.
O’Connell of the U. S. Treasury Department, and Capt. John M. Tobin, all
of Washington, D. C.


MEETINGS AND FIELD DAY.

Provision is made for quarterly meetings of the Society and monthly
meetings of the Executive Council. As far as possible, each meeting,
especially those of the Council, is held in a city or state different
from the one where the preceding meeting was held. This prevents the
Society from becoming merely local to any one state or city, and makes
it what its founders intended it to be—a national body. A general field
day of the organization is held annually in the summer or fall. The
annual meeting for the election of officers is held in January.


DIPLOMA OF MEMBERSHIP.

Each member will be entitled to a diploma of membership, bearing the
name of the Society, the date of his admission, and such other
appropriate matter as may be decided upon. These certificates will be
signed by the president-general, the secretary-general, the
treasurer-general, and one or two other officers, and will be suitable
for display in office, library, or study.


THE SOCIETY’S PUBLICATIONS.

The Society issues an annual volume, called the JOURNAL of the
organization, handsomely printed and substantially bound in cloth. This
volume is illustrated, contains a record of the Society’s proceedings,
papers contributed by the members as the result of original research,
extracts from old documents bearing upon the Irish in this country, and
matter of similar interest, much of it, indeed, of almost priceless
value. A copy of the JOURNAL is annually given free to each member in
good standing. The Society also issues special publications from time to
time for the members.




                     OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY, 1899.


                          _President-General_,

                         HON. THOMAS J. GARGAN,
            Of the Law Firm, Gargan & Keating, Boston, Mass.


                       _Vice-President-General_,

                         HON. JOHN D. CRIMMINS,
                    40 East 68th St., New York City.


                          _Secretary-General_,

                        THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
         Editor _Evening Call_, 77 Main St., Woonsocket, R. I.


                          _Treasurer-General_,

                         HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN,
              State Insurance Commissioner, Concord, N. H.


                       _Librarian and Archivist_,

                           THOMAS B. LAWLER,
                             New York City.
   (With Ginn & Co., Publishers, Boston, New York, Chicago, London.)


                           EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

                           The foregoing and

  JAMES JEFFREY ROCHE, LL. D., Editor _The Pilot_, Boston, Mass.

  MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN, LL. D., J. U. D., Professor of English Language
    and Literature, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  ROBERT ELLIS THOMPSON, Ph. D., President Central High School,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  THOMAS ADDIS EMMET, M. D., LL. D., grand nephew of Robert Emmet, the
    Irish Patriot, New York City.

  HON. THOMAS DUNN ENGLISH, the well known writer; ex-Member of
    Congress, Newark, N. J.

  FRANCIS C. TRAVERS, President of Travers Brothers Co., 107 Duane St.,
    New York City.

  STEPHEN J. GEOGHEGAN, of the firm Gillis & Geoghegan, 537–539 West
    Broadway, New York City.

  JOSEPH SMITH, Secretary of the Board of Police, Lowell, Mass.

  AUGUSTUS ST. GAUDENS, Member of the National Academy of Design, New
    York City.

  HON. MORGAN J. O’BRIEN, a Justice of the New York Supreme Court.

  FRANCIS HIGGINS, 12 East 34th St., New York City.

  JOHN CRANE, 307 West 103d St., New York City.

  HON. JAMES S. COLEMAN, 38 East 69th St., New York City.

  JOSEPH F. SWORDS, New York City; of the fourth American generation
    from Francis Dawson Swords, who was exiled from Ireland, 1760, and
    who served in the Patriot army throughout the American Revolution.


                         STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.

 Maine—JAMES CUNNINGHAM, Portland.
 New Hampshire—JAMES F. BRENNAN, Peterborough.
 Vermont—JOHN D. HANRAHAN, M. D., Rutland.
 Massachusetts—OSBORNE HOWES, Boston.
 Rhode Island—DENNIS H. SHEAHAN, Providence.
 Connecticut—JOHN F. HAYES, M. D., Waterbury.
 New York—GEN. JAMES R. O’BEIRNE, New York City.
 New Jersey—HON. WILLIAM A. M. MACK, Elizabeth.
 Pennsylvania—GEN. ST. CLAIR A. MULHOLLAND, Philadelphia.
 Delaware—COL. JOHN P. DONAHOE, WILMINGTON.
 Virginia—HON. JOSEPH T. LAWLESS, Richmond.
 West Virginia—COL. O’BRIEN MOORE, Charleston.
 South Carolina—HON. M. C. BUTLER, Edgefield.
 Georgia—HON. PATRICK WALSH, Augusta. (Died March 19, 1899.)
 Ohio—REV. GEORGE W. PEPPER, Cleveland. (Died August 6, 1899.)
 Indiana—VERY REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C., Notre Dame.
 Illinois—P. T. BARRY, Chicago.
 Iowa—REV. M. C. LENIHAN, Marshalltown.
 Minnesota—JOHN D. O’BRIEN, St. Paul.
 Michigan—HON. T. A. E. WEADOCK, Detroit.
 Missouri—JULIUS L. FOY, St. Louis.
 Tennessee—MICHAEL GAVIN, Memphis.
 Kentucky—EDWARD FITZPATRICK, Louisville.
 Kansas—PATRICK H. CONEY, Topeka.
 Colorado—J. E. LOWERY, M. D., Sopris.
 Nebraska—M. D. LONG, O’Neill.
 Utah—JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN, Salt Lake City.
 Texas—GEN. A. G. MALLOY, El Paso.
 Oregon—HENRY E. REED, Portland.
 California—JAMES CONNOLLY, Coronado.


 District of Columbia—PATRICK O’FARRELL, Washington.




                  CHRONOLOGICAL RECORD OF THE SOCIETY.


 1896. Dec. 26.  Call issued at Boston, Mass., for a meeting to organize
                   the Society.
                  *       *       *       *       *

 1897. Jan. 20.  The meeting was held on this date at the Revere House,
                   Boston, Mass.; the Society was organized, and a
                   Constitution and a code of By-Laws adopted. Hon.
                   Thomas J. Gargan presided at the meeting, and Thomas
                   Hamilton Murray was secretary.

 1897. Jan. 20.  At this first meeting addresses were delivered by Hon.
                   John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.; Joseph Smith,
                   Lowell, Mass.; Hon. Hugh J. Carroll, Pawtucket, R.
                   I.; Charles A. De Courcy, Lawrence, Mass.; George H.
                   Moses, Concord, N. H.; Rev. John J. McCoy, Chicopee,
                   Mass.; Osborne Howes, Boston, Mass.; P. J. Flatley,
                   Boston, Mass., and one or two other gentlemen.

 1897. Jan. 20.  Paul B. Du Chaillu, the famous explorer, author of “The
                   Land of the Midnight Sun,” “The Viking Age,” etc.,
                   was present at the meeting as the guest of the
                   chairman, Thomas J. Gargan, and made an address.
                   George H. Moses, mentioned in the preceding minute,
                   was present as the guest of Hon. John C. Linehan, and
                   took so much interest in the movement that he signed
                   the agreement of association. Mr. Moses is editor of
                   the _Concord_ (N. H.) _Monitor_.

 1897. Jan. 20.  Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N. (retired), was
                   elected as the first president-general of the
                   Society.

 1897. Jan. 20.  Thomas Hamilton Murray was elected secretary-general;
                   Hon. John C. Linehan, treasurer-general, and Thomas
                   B. Lawler, librarian and archivist. Of these, Mr.
                   Murray then resided in Lawrence, Mass.; Mr. Linehan
                   is state insurance commissioner of New Hampshire, and
                   resides in Concord, while Mr. Lawler was, at the
                   time, a resident of Worcester, Mass.

 1897. Jan. 20.  The following were chosen to be members of the
                   Executive Council of the Society: James Jeffrey
                   Roche, Boston, Mass.; Robert Ellis Thompson,
                   Philadelphia, Pa.; Theodore Roosevelt, New York city;
                   Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.; Augustus St.
                   Gaudens, New York city; Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.;
                   Thomas Dunn English, Newark, N. J.; Maurice F. Egan,
                   Washington, D. C.; Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D.
                   C., and T. Russell Sullivan, Boston, Mass. A list of
                   state vice-presidents was also submitted and adopted.
                   Osborne Howes, Boston, vice-president for
                   Massachusetts, is a descendant of David O’Killia
                   (O’Kelly), who settled on Cape Cod as early as 1657,
                   and who is mentioned in the old Yarmouth, Mass.,
                   records as “the Irishman.” The records show that at
                   the close of King Philip’s War, O’Killia was assessed
                   his proportionate part towards defraying the expenses
                   of that struggle.

 1897. Jan. 20.  Secretary-General T. H. Murray announced at this first
                   meeting that letters expressive of interest in the
                   new organization, acknowledging an invitation, or
                   giving an expression of opinion, had been received
                   from Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N.,
                   Germantown, Pa.; Governor Hastings of Pennsylvania;
                   United States Senator Hoar of Worcester, Mass.; Rev.
                   Cyrus Townsend Brady, Protestant Episcopal archdeacon
                   of Pennsylvania; Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York
                   city; Edward A. Moseley, secretary of the Interstate
                   Commerce Commission, Washington, D. C.; Joseph F.
                   Swords, Hartford, Conn.; Ex-United States Senator
                   Patrick Walsh, Augusta, Ga.; Gen. John Cochrane,
                   president of the New York Society of the Cincinnati;
                   Ex-Governor Waller of Connecticut; Rt. Rev. Thomas J.
                   Conaty, later rector of the Catholic University,
                   Washington, D. C.; Gen. Francis A. Walker, Boston,
                   Mass.; Rev. George W. Pepper (Methodist), Cleveland,
                   O.; Rev. J. Gray Bolton (Presbyterian), Philadelphia,
                   Pa.; Ex-Congressman T. A. E. Weadock, Detroit, Mich.,
                   and John P. Donahoe, Wilmington, Del.

 1897. Jan. 20.  Secretary-General Murray also announced letters from
                   Prof. William M. Sloane, of Columbia University, New
                   York; President Tyler of the College of William and
                   Mary, Virginia; President Lee of Washington and Lee
                   University, Virginia; Provost Harrison, of the
                   University of Pennsylvania; Rev. Thomas J. Shahan of
                   the Catholic University, Washington, D. C.; Very Rev.
                   Andrew Morrissey, president of the University of
                   Notre Dame, Indiana; H. B. Adams, professor of
                   American and Institutional history, Johns Hopkins
                   University, Maryland; Henry Stoddard Ruggles,
                   Wakefield, Mass.; Samuel Swett Green, of the American
                   Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass.; Theodore
                   Roosevelt, New York city; Thomas Dunn English,
                   Newark, N. J.; Judge Smith of the Superior court,
                   Pennsylvania; Col. D. S. Lamson, Weston, Mass.; Rev.
                   George C. Betts (Protestant Episcopalian), Goshen, N.
                   Y., and Hon. Emmet O’Neal, United States attorney for
                   the northern district of Alabama.

 1897. Jan. 21.  _The Boston Globe_, _Herald_, and other papers
                   contained reports concerning the formation of the
                   Society. _The Springfield_ (Mass.) _Republican_ said:
                   “The American-Irish Historical society, organized at
                   Boston yesterday with a remarkable list of officers
                   and the assurance of a charter membership as
                   noteworthy, will prove without question a body of
                   real public importance.... Among those present at the
                   meeting mostly from Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and
                   Rhode Island, was Edward A. Hall of this city, whose
                   history of the Irish in Hampden county has grown into
                   a history of the Irish in Western Massachusetts,
                   where, in fact, they settled a great number of the
                   hill towns, and their descendants live to this
                   day.... It will be the work of the Society to show
                   what a vast influence the Irish element had in
                   building our free commonwealths whose alliance made
                   the first great country of the people, in which with
                   all its faults reposes the hope of the progress of
                   the world into a world of the people instead of one
                   of warring dynasties and vicious religious hatreds,
                   setting nation against nation. We look to this
                   Society for active, earnest, ardent work for the
                   enlightenment, brotherhood and unity of this people
                   first, and of all other peoples in the long event.
                   God hath made of one blood all the nations of the
                   earth.”

 1897. Jan. 21.  Rev. Edmund B. Palmer, Jamaica Plain, Mass., writes a
                   congratulatory letter to Treasurer-General Linehan.
                   Mr. Palmer states that he is a great grandson of
                   Barnabas Palmer of Rochester, N. H., who was born in
                   Cork or Limerick, 1725, and who emigrated from there
                   with two brothers, and enlisted under Sir William
                   Pepperill. Barnabas sailed from Portsmouth, N.
                   H.,—one of the force of 3,000 men, 1745, and on the
                   Isle of Cape Breton, under Fort Louisburg, left his
                   right arm. Subsequently he settled in Rochester, N.
                   H., married, had fourteen children, and was a member
                   of the general court of New Hampshire that ratified
                   the Constitution of the United States.

 1897. Jan. 21.  Col. D. L. Lamson, Weston, Mass., writes desiring to
                   become a member. He was lieutenant-colonel commanding
                   Sixteenth regiment (Mass.), 1861; A. A. G., Norfolk,
                   1862; served on staff of General Hooker; is a member
                   of the Society of Colonial Wars, Sons of the American
                   Revolution, and Military Order of the Loyal Legion;
                   one of his ancestors landed at Ipswich, Mass., in
                   1632, and received a grant of 350 acres which still
                   remains in the family; another ancestor, Samuel, of
                   Reading, Mass., participated in King Philip’s War and
                   had a son in the expedition of 1711. Another member
                   of the family, Samuel, of Weston, commanded a company
                   at Concord, Mass., April 19, 1775, and was major and
                   colonel of the Third Middlesex regiment for many
                   years, dying in 1795.

 1897. Jan. 21.  William Halley, editor of _The Vindicator_, Austin,
                   Ill., writes a congratulatory letter. Mr. Halley came
                   to this country from Ireland, in 1842, as a fellow
                   voyager with Thomas D’Arcy McGee.

 1897. Jan. 23.  Lieutenant Commander J. D. Jerrold Kelley, U. S. N.,
                   attached to the battleship _Texas_, expresses a
                   request to be admitted to membership.

 1897. Jan. 26.  Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N., writes from
                   Germantown, Pa., accepting the office of
                   president-general.

 1897. Jan. 26.  T. Russell Sullivan, Boston, Mass., a descendant of
                   Governor James Sullivan of Massachusetts,
                   acknowledges his election as a member of the
                   Executive Council of the Society.

 1897. Feb. 3.   Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H., presents to the
                   Society a copy of the volume issued by the state of
                   New Hampshire and descriptive of the exercises
                   attending the dedication, Sept. 27, 1894, at Durham,
                   N. H., of the monument to Gen. John Sullivan of the
                   Revolution.

 1897. Feb. 4.   N. C. Steele, M. D., Chattanooga, Tenn., writes
                   interestingly relative to the Society. He says, “I am
                   four generations removed from Ireland.”

 1897. Feb. 6.   O’Brien Moore, Washington, D. C., writes, expressing
                   his desire to become a life member.

 1897. Feb. 8.   Hugh McCaffrey, Philadelphia, Pa., writes, enclosing
                   fifty dollars in payment of life membership fee.

 1897. Feb. 9.   Hon. William McAdoo, assistant secretary of the U. S.
                   navy, Washington, D. C., thanks the Society for
                   having elected him vice-president for New Jersey, his
                   residential state.

 1897. Feb. 10.  Hon. Edwin D. McGuinness, mayor of Providence, R. I.,
                   and ex-secretary of state of Rhode Island, writes
                   that he is entirely in accord with the purposes of
                   the Society, and wishes to become a member.

 1897. Feb. 11.  The editor of the _Rosary Magazine_, through Rev. J. L.
                   O’Neil, O. P., New York city, becomes a life member.
                   This life membership is to stand to the credit of
                   “The Editor of The _Rosary Magazine_.” It is so
                   arranged in order that successive editors of the
                   publication may enjoy the rights and privileges of
                   the Society. Father O’Neil was the first to represent
                   the magazine in the organization.

 1897. Feb. 16.  Paymaster Mitchell C. McDonald, U. S. N., attached to
                   the battleship _Texas_, cordially accepts an
                   invitation to join the Society.

 1897. Feb. 19.  Arthur H. Chase, state librarian of New Hampshire,
                   expresses a desire to receive the publications of the
                   Society for the state library. He says: “I assure you
                   the publications will be of great value to us.”

 1897. Feb. 23.  Henry Carey Baird, Philadelphia, Pa., writes. His
                   grandfather was a founder of the Hibernian Society of
                   Philadelphia (1790).

 1897. March 3.  Hon. Ignatius Donnelly, author of “The Great
                   Cryptogram,” is admitted to the Society.

 1897. March 6.  Rev. Michael O’Brien, Lowell, Mass., becomes a life
                   member.

 1897. March 9.  Heman W. Chaplin, Boston, Mass., writes desiring to
                   become a member of the Society. He is a descendant of
                   the O’Briens of Machias, Me., patriots of the
                   Revolution.

 1897. March 15. Hon. Daniel H. Hastings, governor of Pennsylvania,
                   expresses regrets at his inability to attend the
                   meeting on the 19th prox.

 1897. March 17. Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass., a member of the Executive
                   Council of the Society, reads a paper before the
                   Irish Society of that city on “The Irish Element
                   Among the Founders of Lowell.”

 1897. March 26. C. H. Meade, Germantown, Pa., writes informing the
                   Society of the serious illness of President-General
                   Meade.

 1897. April 5.  Call issued for the second meeting of the Society (to
                   be held on the 19th inst.).

 1897. April 9.  Letter from Gen. John Cochrane, New York city, a
                   descendant of an officer of the Revolution.

 1897. April 10. Letter written by Charles E. Brown, town clerk of
                   historic Concord, Mass.

 1897. April 17. Letter written by Leonard A. Saville, town clerk of
                   Lexington, Mass., acknowledging, on behalf of the
                   selectmen and himself, an invitation to be present as
                   guests on the 19th inst. They are unable to attend
                   owing to a home celebration.

 1897. April 19. The second meeting of the Society. Held in the Revere
                   House, Boston, Mass. Thomas J. Gargan of Boston
                   presides. Four papers read.

 1897. April 19. The first paper at this meeting was by Thomas Hamilton
                   Murray, the secretary-general, on “The Irish Bacons
                   who Settled at Dedham, Mass., in 1640,” one of whose
                   descendants, John Bacon, was killed April 19, 1775,
                   in the fight at West Cambridge (battle of Lexington).

 1897. April 19. The second paper at the meeting was by John C. Linehan,
                   treasurer-general, on “The Seizure of the Powder at
                   Fort William and Mary,” by Maj. John Sullivan and his
                   associates, some of which powder was later dealt out
                   to the patriots at Bunker Hill.

 1897. April 19. The third paper was by Edward J. Brandon, city clerk of
                   Cambridge, Mass., on “The Battle of Lexington,
                   Concord, and Cambridge,” during which he read a list
                   of Irish names borne by minute men or militia in the
                   battle of the nineteenth of April, 1775.

 1897. April 19. The fourth paper was by Joseph Smith, member of the
                   Executive Council, on “The Irishman Ethnologically
                   Considered.”

 1897. April 21. Henry A. May, Roslindale, Mass., writes for information
                   concerning the Society. He states that he is a
                   descendant through his mother, Roxanna Butler of
                   Pelham, N. H., from James Butler, the planter of
                   Lancaster, Mass. (1653), who came from Ireland, and
                   was the largest land owner in what is now Worcester
                   county. He owned land in Dunstable, Woburn, and
                   Billerica, where he died in 1681. His son, Deacon
                   John Butler, was the first child of Irish parentage
                   born in Woburn, Mass., and John was the first settler
                   of what is now Pelham, N. H., and lies buried there.
                   A monument was erected to his memory on “Pelham
                   Green,” in the centre of the town of Pelham, in 1886,
                   by his descendants, some 1,200 being present at the
                   dedication in June of that year.

 1897. April 29. Death of Col. Jeremiah W. Coveney, postmaster of
                   Boston, the first member of the Society to pass away.

 1897. April 30. C. H. Meade states that his father, the
                   president-general, is in a critical condition.

 1897. May 4.    Death at Washington, D. C., of the president-general of
                   the Society, Rear Admiral Richard W. Meade, U. S. N.

 1897. May 5.    Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C., a member of the
                   Executive Council of the Society, pens a letter of
                   condolence to Richard W. Meade, Jr., on the death of
                   the latter’s father, the Society’s president-general.

 1897. May 6.    Edward A. Moseley, just mentioned, writes to
                   Secretary-General Murray relative to the obsequies of
                   the president-general. Mr. Moseley states that the
                   matter of a floral tribute from the Society has been
                   arranged.

 1897. May 7.    Letter from Richard W. Meade, Jr., to Mr. Moseley,
                   thanking the Society, through him, for the floral
                   emblem contributed, and stating that it “now rests on
                   my father’s grave.”

 1897. May 15.   First meeting of the Executive Council of the Society
                   held, Boston, Mass. Present: Thomas J. Gargan,
                   Boston, Mass.; John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.;
                   Thomas Hamilton Murray, Lawrence, Mass.; Joseph
                   Smith, Lowell, Mass.; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston,
                   Mass., and Thomas B. Lawler, Worcester, Mass. Mr.
                   Gargan presided.

 1897. May 15.   At this first meeting of the Council, Edward A. Moseley
                   of Washington, D. C., was chosen president-general of
                   the Society, to fill the unexpired term of the late
                   Admiral Meade. Mr. Moseley is secretary of the
                   Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington, D. C. He
                   was born in 1846, at Newburyport, Mass. He is a
                   member of the Society of Colonial Wars, a member of
                   the Society of the Sons of the American Revolution, a
                   member of the Society of the Sons of the Revolution,
                   a member of the Bunker Hill Monument Society (his
                   great-grandfather fought there as captain in General
                   Putnam’s brigade from Connecticut); has received the
                   thanks of the commonwealth of Massachusetts “for
                   distinguished services in the cause of humanity”; is
                   the great-great-grandson of Col. Jonathan Buck;
                   great-grandson of Col. Ebenezer Buck; also claims
                   descent from Col. William Gilmore of New Hampshire,
                   formerly of Coleraine, Ireland—all Revolutionary
                   heroes.

 1897. May 24.   Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city, becomes a life
                   member of the Society.

 1897. June.     Among the cities officially visited this month by the
                   secretary-general was Lynn, Mass., where special
                   courtesies were extended him by Daniel Donovan and
                   Capt. P. S. Curry, both of that city.

 1897. June 6.   Secretary-General Murray addresses a meeting at
                   Portland, Me., in behalf of the Society. James
                   Cunningham of Portland presides.

 1897. June 14.  President-General Moseley writes to James Cunningham of
                   Portland, Me., thanking the latter for his interest
                   in getting up the meeting in that city on the 6th
                   inst.

 1897. June 14.  Prof. Maurice Francis Egan of the Catholic University,
                   Washington, D. C., becomes a member of the Society.

 1897. June 24.  John R. Alley of Boston, Mass., forwards check for $50.
                   Life membership fee.

 1897. June 30.  Second meeting of the Council of the Society. Held in
                   the Parker House, Boston, Mass. James Jeffrey Roche
                   of Boston presided. Treasurer-General Linehan was
                   authorized to make arrangements for the first annual
                   field day of the Society, the same to be held at
                   Newcastle, N. H.

 1897. July.     The secretary-general visited Peabody and Salem, Mass.,
                   this month, being assisted in obtaining members there
                   by Thomas Carroll of the former place.

 1897. July 20.  Capt. John Drum, Tenth U. S. Infantry, admitted to
                   membership.

 1897. July 28.  Third meeting of the Council of the Society. Held at
                   Salisbury Beach, Mass. President-General Moseley
                   occupied the chair. Mr. Moseley had earlier in the
                   day entertained the council at lunch in the Wolfe
                   Tavern, Newburyport, Mass.

 1897. Aug. 4.   Death of Henry V. Donovan, M. D., Lawrence, Mass., a
                   member of the Society and a graduate of Harvard
                   University.

 1897. Aug. 30.  Rear Admiral Belknap, U. S. N. (retired), writes from
                   Newport, R. I., regretting his inability to be
                   present at the meeting to be held in Pawtucket, R.
                   I., on the 1st prox.

 1897. September. An article descriptive of the Society’s purposes
                   appears in the current issue of the _Granite
                   Monthly_, Concord, N. H. It is from the pen of
                   Treasurer-General Linehan.

 1897. Sept. 1.  Fourth meeting of the Council takes place at the
                   Benedict House, Pawtucket, R. I. James Jeffrey Roche
                   of Boston, Mass., presided. Secretary-General Murray
                   read extracts from old Rhode Island documents
                   containing mention of early Irish settlers.

 1897. Sept. 1.  The Council was entertained at a banquet this evening
                   by the Rhode Island members of the Society. The event
                   took place at the Benedict House, Pawtucket. Hon.
                   Hugh J. Carroll, ex-mayor of the city, presided.
                   Secretary-General Murray, then a resident of
                   Pawtucket, delivered an address of welcome.

 1897. Sept. 18. Fifth meeting of the Council. Held in the Parker House,
                   Boston, Mass. James Jeffrey Roche of Boston presides.
                   A gift to the library of the Society from Gen. St.
                   Clair A. Mulholland, Philadelphia, Pa., is announced.
                   It comprises a copy of the “History of the Friendly
                   Sons of St. Patrick and of the Hibernian Society,” of
                   that city.

 1897. Sept. 21. Hon. John C. Linehan, treasurer-general of the Society,
                   presents the library a copy of the “Addresses at the
                   Dedication of the Monument Erected to the Memory of
                   Matthew Thornton at Merrimack, N. H., September 29,
                   1892.”

 1897. Sept. 24. William McConway, Pittsburg, Pa., writes to
                   President-General Moseley, enclosing life membership
                   fee.

 1897. Sept. 28. Edward Fitzpatrick, a member of the organization,
                   contributes an article to the _Louisville_ (Ky.)
                   _Times_, on “Irish Settlers in Louisville and
                   Vicinity.”

 1897. Sept. 28. Hon. Joseph T. Lawless, secretary of state of Virginia,
                   writes a cordial letter, and desires to be admitted
                   to membership.

 1897. Oct. 7.   Death of Gen. John Cochrane, a member of the Society,
                   New York city.

 1897. Oct. 23.  Hon. Elisha Dyer, governor of Rhode Island, writes
                   accepting an invitation extended him to join the
                   Society.

 1897. Oct. 23.  Death of Laurence J. Smith, Lowell, Mass., a member of
                   the Society.

 1897. Nov. 10.  Governor Dyer of Rhode Island writes, regretting that
                   he will be unable to attend the meeting of the
                   Society on the 16th.

 1897. Nov. 10.  E. Benjamin Andrews, D. D., LL. D., president of Brown
                   University, sends a letter in which he cordially
                   expresses his appreciation of the purposes of the
                   Society. On another occasion, he writes of the
                   organization: “I wish it success with all my heart.”

 1897. Nov. 15.  The Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, New York city, in
                   session this evening, send fraternal greetings to the
                   Society, the bearer thereof being Thomas B. Lawler,
                   the Society’s librarian and archivist.

 1897. Nov. 16.  The third meeting of the Society was held this evening
                   in Young’s Hotel, Boston, Mass. Gen. James R.
                   O’Beirne, New York, presided at the business session
                   and Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, at the banquet
                   immediately following.

 1897. Nov. 16.  At this meeting an address was delivered by John
                   Mackinnon Robertson of London, England, author of
                   “The Saxon and the Celt.” Dennis Harvey Sheahan,
                   ex-clerk of the Rhode Island house of
                   representatives, read a paper on “The Need of an
                   Organization Such as the A. I. H. S., and Its Scope.”

 1897. Dec. 7.   Secretary-General Murray addressed the Churchmen’s Club
                   of Rhode Island, at Providence, on “Five Colonial
                   Rhode Islanders.” Mr. Justice Stiness of the Rhode
                   Island supreme court presided. The five treated by
                   Mr. Murray were all of Irish birth or extraction.

 1897. Dec. 11.  Sixth meeting of the Council of the Society is held in
                   the Parker House, Boston, Mass. Thomas J. Gargan of
                   Boston presides. It is voted to prepare for
                   publication, and publish, the first volume of the
                   Journal of the Society’s Proceedings. The volume thus
                   authorized was issued some months later. There is
                   received from Dr. J. C. O’Connell, Washington, D. C.,
                   a copy of his work on “The Irish in the Revolution
                   and in the Civil War.”

 1897. Dec. 18.  Death of Hon. Owen A. Galvin, a member of the Society,
                   Boston, Mass.

 1898. Jan. 14.  Joseph F. Swords, of Hartford, the Society’s state
                   vice-president for Connecticut at this time,
                   contributes a letter to the _Boston Pilot_ treating
                   of the origin of the family name Swords in Ireland.

 1898. Jan. 25.  Death of Hon. Charles B. Gafney, a member of the
                   Society, Rochester, N. H.

 1898. Jan. 29.  Seventh meeting of the Council of the Society. Held in
                   the Parker House, Boston, Mass., Thomas J. Gargan
                   presiding. It was decided to hold the annual meeting
                   and banquet of the Society at the Hotel San Remo, New
                   York city, on the evening of the 17th prox.

 1898. Feb. 7.   Hon. Thomas M. Waller, ex-governor of Connecticut,
                   qualifies as a member of the Society.

 1898. Feb. 17.  Eighth meeting of the Council, held at the Hotel San
                   Remo, New York city, Thomas J. Gargan, of Boston,
                   presiding.

 1898. Feb. 17.  Annual meeting of the Society at the San Remo, New York
                   city, following the meeting of the Council. Gen.
                   James R. O’Beirne of New York presides. Edward A.
                   Moseley, Washington, D. C., is reëlected
                   president-general.

 1898. Feb. 17.  Annual banquet of the Society at the San Remo,
                   immediately following the annual meeting. General
                   O’Beirne also presided at the banquet. Resolutions of
                   sorrow adopted on the loss of the U. S. battleship
                   _Maine_, in Havana harbor, and copies of the
                   resolutions ordered transmitted to the president of
                   the United States, and to the secretary of the navy.

 1898. Feb. 17.  At this annual banquet, Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass.,
                   a member of the Council of the Society, contributed a
                   paper on “Some Ways in which American History is
                   Falsified.” Addresses were delivered by Hon. Thomas
                   Dunn English of Newark, N. J.; Dr. Thomas Addis
                   Emmet, New York city; Judge Wauhope Lynn, New York
                   city, and other gentlemen.

 1898. Feb. 18.  Hon. John D. Crimmins, of New York city, gives a
                   reception to the Society and entertains the latter at
                   lunch at his residence, 40 East 68th St.

 1898. Feb. 24.  John Goodwin, New York city, forwards check for $50 in
                   payment of life membership fee.

 1898. Feb. 25.  The navy department, Washington, D. C., acknowledges
                   receipt of the resolutions of condolence on the loss
                   of the battleship _Maine_, adopted by the Society on
                   the 17th instant, and returns thanks “in the name of
                   the officers and men of the navy.”

 1898. March 3.  Hon. Robert T. Davis, Fall River, Mass., ex-mayor of
                   Fall River, and ex-member of congress, becomes a
                   member of the Society.

 1898. March 5.  Andrew Athy, Worcester, Mass., joins the Society as a
                   life member.

 1898. March 13. Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville, Ky., a member of the
                   Society, contributes an article to the _Louisville_
                   (Ky.) _Courier-Journal_, on “The Lost State of
                   Clark.” He mentions Thomas Connolly, who was a fifer
                   in Clark’s regiment.

 1898. March 14. Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, mayor of Newport, R. I.,
                   admitted to the Society.

 1898. March 17. Secretary-General Murray and Treasurer-General Linehan
                   are guests at a banquet of the Irish Society of
                   Lowell, Mass. Joseph Smith of that city presides.

 1898. March 27. Thomas J. Gargan, of the Society’s Council, and Thomas
                   Hamilton Murray, secretary-general of the Society,
                   contribute to a symposium in the _Boston Sunday
                   Globe_ on the subject of an Anglo-American alliance.
                   Both strongly oppose the idea.

 1898. April 18. President Andrews of Brown University writes, accepting
                   invitation to attend the meeting in Providence, R.
                   I., on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 19. Letter written by Harvey Wheeler, chairman of the
                   selectmen of historic Concord, Mass., sending hearty
                   greetings to the participants in the meeting under
                   the auspices of the Society on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 20. Hon. John H. Stiness, a justice of the Rhode Island
                   supreme court, sends regrets that he cannot attend
                   the meeting on the 21st instant.

 1898. April 21. Ninth meeting of the Society’s Council is held at the
                   Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I. Letter read
                   from Hon. Eli Thayer, Worcester, Mass.

 1898. April 21. In the evening, following this Council meeting, a
                   reception and banquet was given the Council by the
                   Rhode Island members of the Society, at the
                   Narragansett, Providence. Dennis Harvey Sheahan of
                   Providence presided.

 1898. April 21. The post-prandial exercises at this banquet included a
                   paper by Thomas Hamilton Murray, the
                   secretary-general, on “Matthew Watson, an Irish
                   Settler of Barrington, R. I., 1722.” There were
                   addresses by President Andrews of Brown University;
                   Prof. Alonzo Williams of Brown; Hon. John C. Linehan,
                   Concord, N. H.; Rev. Arthur J. Teeling, Lynn, Mass.;
                   Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Capt. E. O’Meagher
                   Condon, New York city; James Jeffrey Roche and Thomas
                   J. Gargan, Boston, Mass., and other gentlemen.

 1898. April 21. Prof. William M. Sloane of Columbia University, New
                   York, admitted to membership.

 1898. April 28. James G. Hickey, manager of the United States Hotel,
                   Boston, Mass., becomes a life member of the Society.

 1898. May 15.   Death of Andrew Athy, Worcester, Mass., a life member.

 1898. May 15.   Secretary-General Murray addressed a meeting at Bangor,
                   Me., in the interests of the Society. William F.
                   Curran of Bangor, presided.

 1898. May 21.   Secretary-General Murray visits Springfield, Mass., to
                   enlarge the Society’s membership, and receives
                   valuable assistance from Edward A. Hall and Dr.
                   Philip Kilroy, both of that city.

 1898. June.     Secretary-General Murray this month visited Portsmouth
                   and Dover, N. H.; New Haven, Conn.; New Bedford and
                   Holyoke, Mass. Special courtesies were shown him at
                   Portsmouth by John Griffin; at Dover, by John A.
                   Hoye; and at New Bedford by Edmund O’Keefe and Rev.
                   James F. Clark.

 1898. June 3.   Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville, Ky., contributes an
                   article to _The Times_ of that city on “Early Irish
                   Settlers in Kentucky.”

 1898. June 21.  Death of John R. Alley, Boston, Mass., a life member of
                   the Society.

 1898. June 22.  The secretary-general addresses a meeting at Chicopee,
                   Mass., Rev. John J. McCoy, P. R., of Chicopee,
                   presiding.

 1898. June 25.  Death of Joseph H. Fay, M. D., Fall River, Mass., a
                   member of the Society and graduate of the University
                   of Vermont.

 1898. June 30.  First field day of the Society. Held at Newcastle, N.
                   H., with headquarters at the Hotel Wentworth. The
                   exercises in the evening were presided over by Hon.
                   John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H. Bernard Corr of
                   Boston, Mass., read a paper on “The Ancestors of Gen.
                   John Sullivan.” Addresses were delivered by Mayor
                   Tilton of Portsmouth, N. H.; Dr. William D. Collins,
                   Haverhill, Mass.; John F. Doyle, New York city; James
                   F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H.; William J. Kelly,
                   Kittery, Me.; Dr. W. H. A. Lyons, Portsmouth, N. H.;
                   Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Capt. E. O’Meagher
                   Condon, New York city; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston,
                   Mass.; Charles H. Clary, Hallowell, Me.; John
                   Griffin, Portsmouth, N. H.; James H. McGlinchy,
                   Portland, Me.; Secretary-General Murray and other
                   gentlemen.

 1898. June 30.  Charles H. Clary of Hallowell, Me., who is here
                   mentioned as making an address this evening, is a
                   descendant of “John Clary of Newcastle, province of
                   New Hampshire, who was published to Jane Mahoney of
                   Georgetown, Me., 1750.” John settled in Georgetown
                   presumably about the time of his marriage. Four
                   children were born before 1760.

 1898. June 30.  A communication from President-General Moseley was read
                   at the exercises this evening by the
                   secretary-general. Mr. Moseley called attention to
                   the fact that Hon. John D. Long, secretary of the
                   navy, had consented to name one of the new torpedo
                   boats, soon to be constructed, the _O’Brien_, and to
                   name two of the new torpedo-boat destroyers,
                   respectively, _Barry_ and _Macdonough_, these names
                   to perpetuate three American patriots of Irish blood.
                   The meeting adopted a vote of thanks to Secretary
                   Long.

 1898. June 30.  Secretary-General Murray, this evening, called
                   attention to the fact that on Sept. 10 would occur
                   the anniversary of the battle of Lake Erie when
                   Commodore Perry, the son of an Irish mother,
                   administered such a thorough defeat to the British.
                   It was suggested that the anniversary be duly
                   observed by the Society. Referred to the Council. The
                   secretary-general also suggested that the anniversary
                   of the surrender of the British General, Burgoyne,
                   Oct. 17 and that of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis,
                   Oct. 19, be celebrated by a public meeting in Boston
                   or New York. Referred to the Council.

 1898. July.     During this month Mr. Murray, the secretary-general,
                   visited Lewiston, Augusta, Hallowell, and Gardiner,
                   Me., in the interests of the Society, being greatly
                   assisted in the three latter places by Thomas J.
                   Lynch, a prominent lawyer of Augusta. Mr. Murray also
                   visited Biddeford, Me., where he addressed a meeting,
                   specially called, and presided over by Cornelius
                   Horigan of that city. He was also materially assisted
                   by Rev. T. P. Linehan of Biddeford. Secretary-General
                   Murray likewise visited, this month, Manchester, N.
                   H., and was introduced to prominent people there by
                   Michael O’Dowd of Manchester. The object of the
                   secretary-general’s visit to these places was to
                   explain the purposes of the organization and to
                   obtain additional members for the latter.

 1898. July 2.   Capt. John Drum, Tenth United States Infantry, a member
                   of the Society, killed in battle before Santiago de
                   Cuba.

 1898. July 25–26. Secretary-General Murray visits Nashua, N. H., and
                   while there addresses a gathering of several
                   gentlemen invited to meet him. Dr. T. A. McCarthy of
                   Nashua presides.

 1898. August.   The Society issued this month a pamphlet entitled:
                   “Irish Schoolmasters in the American Colonies,
                   1640–1775, with a Continuation of the Subject During
                   and After the War of the Revolution.” The authors are
                   Hon. John C. Linehan, the Society’s
                   treasurer-general, and Thomas Hamilton Murray, the
                   secretary-general. An edition of 2,000 copies was
                   printed.

 1898. Aug. 4.   Secretary Murray addressed a meeting at Rutland, Vt.,
                   T. W. Maloney, a leading lawyer of that city,
                   presiding. During his stay in Rutland, Mr. Murray
                   also received valuable assistance from John D.
                   Hanrahan, M. D., of that city.

 1898. Aug. 18.  Tenth meeting of the Council of the Society. It was
                   held in the Parker House, Boston, Mass.
                   President-General Moseley occupied the chair. A
                   minute was adopted on the death of Capt. John Drum,
                   Tenth United States Infantry. Capt. Drum’s son, John
                   D., of Boston, was elected to membership in the
                   Society.

 1898. Aug. 25.  Death of City Marshal John E. Conner of Chicopee,
                   Mass., a member of the Society.

 1898. Aug. 30, 31; Sept. 1. Secretary-General Murray visits Waterbury,
                   Conn., and obtains several new members for the Society.
                   He receives courtesies from Dr. J. F. Hayes and other
                   gentlemen of that city.

 1898. September. The Society issued this month a pamphlet on “The
                   ‘Scotch-Irish’ Shibboleth Analyzed and Rejected; with
                   Some Reference to the Present ‘Anglo-Saxon’ Comedy.”
                   The author is Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass. An edition
                   of 1,500 copies was printed.

 1898. Sept. 3.  Obsequies in Boston, Mass., of Capt. John Drum, Tenth
                   U. S. Infantry, his body having been brought home
                   from Cuba. James Jeffrey Roche of Boston represented
                   the Society as a pall bearer. The organization
                   contributed a floral offering.

 1898. Sept. 23. Death at Newport, R. I., of Rev. Philip Grace, D. D., a
                   member of the Society.

 1898. October.  Secretary-General Murray visited this month, among
                   other places, Philadelphia, Pa., and was assisted in
                   his work there by Hugh McCaffrey of that city, a life
                   member of the Society.

 1898. Oct. 21.  Henry Collins Walsh, a descendant of Gen. Stephen
                   Moylan of the Revolution, becomes a member of the
                   Society.

 1898. Nov. 11.  James Whitcomb Riley, the “Hoosier Poet,” Indianapolis,
                   Ind., admitted to membership.

 1898. Nov. 14, 15, 16. Secretary-General Murray visits Albany, N. Y., in
                   the interests of the organization.

 1898. Dec. 3.   Eleventh meeting of the Council. Held in the Parker
                   House, Boston, Mass., Thomas J. Gargan of Boston
                   presiding. Committees were appointed to take
                   appropriate action on the death of City Marshal John
                   E. Conner of Chicopee, Mass., and on that of Rev.
                   Philip Grace, D. D., Newport, R. I.

 1898. December. Death of Capt. John M. Tobin at Knoxville, Tenn., a
                   member of the Society. He was a veteran of the Civil
                   War, and in the war with Spain had been a
                   quartermaster in the First Brigade, Second Division,
                   First Army Corps.

 1899. Jan. 14.  Gen. George Bell, U. S. A. (retired), Washington, D.
                   C., is admitted to membership.

 1899. Jan. 19.  Twelfth meeting of the Council of the Society. Held at
                   Sherry’s, 44th street and Fifth avenue, New York
                   city. Thomas J. Gargan of Boston, Mass., presided.
                   Among the members of the Council present were Hon.
                   John D. Crimmins, New York; Joseph Smith, Lowell,
                   Mass.; James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.; Francis C.
                   Travers, New York; Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N.
                   H.; Thomas B. Lawler, New York, and Thomas Hamilton
                   Murray, Woonsocket, R. I.

 1899. Jan. 19.  Annual meeting of the Society held at Sherry’s, New
                   York city, immediately following the meeting of the
                   Council. Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York, in the
                   absence of the president-general, presided. Thomas J.
                   Gargan of Boston was chosen president-general of the
                   Society for the ensuing year; Hon. John D. Crimmins,
                   New York, was chosen vice-president-general; Thomas
                   Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I., was reëlected
                   secretary-general; Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N.
                   H., was reëlected treasurer-general; Thomas B.
                   Lawler, New York, was reëlected librarian and
                   archivist.

 1899. Jan. 19.  The annual banquet of the Society was held at Sherry’s,
                   New York, immediately after the annual meeting. Gen.
                   James R. O’Beirne, New York, presided. The attendance
                   numbered about 175 gentlemen, many cities and states
                   being represented. The post-prandial exercises
                   included the reading of four original papers, viz.:
                   By Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York, a paper on
                   “Irish Emigration During the Seventeenth and
                   Eighteenth Centuries”; by Hon. John C. Linehan,
                   Concord, N. H., a paper on “Some Pre-Revolutionary
                   Irishmen”; by Rev. John J. McCoy, P. R., Chicopee,
                   Mass., a paper on “The Irish Element in the Second
                   Massachusetts Volunteers in the Recent War” (with
                   Spain); by James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass., a
                   paper on the general lines of the Society’s work.
                   There were also several addresses.

 1899. Jan. 20.  Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, governor of New York state,
                   gives a reception to the members of the Society at
                   the residence of his sister, Mrs. Cowles, Madison
                   avenue, New York city. He is assisted in receiving by
                   Mrs. Cowles, and the members are presented by Gen.
                   James R. O’Beirne, state vice-president of the
                   Society for New York. Governor Roosevelt delivers an
                   address. Following the reception, lunch is served.

 1899. Jan. 20.  Subsequent to the reception by Governor Roosevelt, the
                   members are received by Hon. John D. Crimmins,
                   vice-president-general of the Society, at his New
                   York residence, 40 East 68th street.

 1899. Feb. 9.   Rev. Richard Henebry, Ph. D., professor of Keltic
                   languages and literature, Catholic University,
                   Washington, D. C., admitted to the Society.

 1899. Feb. 15.  James McGovern, New York city, admitted to life
                   membership.

 1899. Feb. 19.  John J. Lenehan, New York city, admitted to life
                   membership.

 1899. March.    A work is issued this month on “The Irish Washingtons
                   at Home and Abroad, Together with Some Mention of the
                   Ancestry of the American Pater Patriæ.” The authors
                   are Thomas Hamilton Murray, secretary-general of the
                   Society, and George Washington of Dublin, Ireland.
                   The work is dedicated to the Society.

 1899. March 9.  Myles Tierney, New York city, enrolled as a life member
                   of the organization.

 1899. March 16. Communication written by Rev. William L. Ledwith, D.
                   D., librarian of the Presbyterian Historical Society,
                   Philadelphia, Pa., asking for information relative to
                   the American-Irish Historical Society. He concludes:
                   “The lines on which your Society and ours are working
                   must often meet.”

 1899. March 19. Death of Hon. Patrick Walsh, mayor of Augusta, Ga.,
                   ex-United States senator, and member of the Society.

 1899. March 30. Maj. William H. Donovan of the Ninth Massachusetts is
                   commissioned colonel of the regiment. He was one of
                   the majors of the command in the war with Spain, and
                   participated in the gallant work of the regiment on
                   Cuban soil. Colonel Donovan is one of our members in
                   Lawrence, Mass.

 1899. March 31. Death at Boston, Mass., of Col. Patrick T. Hanley, a
                   veteran of the Civil War, and member of the Society.

 1899. April 9.  Death of Hon. John H. Sullivan, East Boston, Mass., a
                   member of the Society.

 1899. April 11. The selectmen and town clerk of Lexington, Mass.,
                   express regrets that they will not be able to attend
                   the meeting at Providence, R. I., on the 19th inst.
                   Their letter bears the official seal of the town.

 1899. April 13. E. Benjamin Andrews, superintendent of public schools,
                   Chicago, Ill., writes expressing his regret that he
                   cannot attend the meeting on the 19th inst.

 1899. April 15. Death of Hon. Eli Thayer, Worcester, Mass., a member of
                   the organization.

 1899. April 16. Death of William F. Cummings, M. D., Rutland, Vt., a
                   graduate of the University of Vermont, and member of
                   the Society.

 1899. April 19. The thirteenth meeting of the Society’s Council is held
                   in the Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I., on
                   this, the anniversary of the battle of Lexington
                   (1775). Thomas J. Gargan, president-general of the
                   Society, occupies the chair. Stephen J. Richardson,
                   New York city, is introduced, and explains the plan
                   and scope of a projected “Encyclopædia Hibernica.”
                   The Council approves the work. It is voted that the
                   annual field day of the Society, this year, be held
                   at Elizabeth, N. J., on the occasion of the launching
                   of the U. S. torpedo-boat _O’Brien_.

 1899. April 19. Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city,
                   vice-president-general of the Society, at this
                   meeting of the Council personally subscribes five
                   hundred dollars for the general purposes of the
                   organization. This is the largest individual gift the
                   Society has thus far received.

 1899. April 19. Lieut. Martin L. Crimmins, 18th U. S. infantry, is
                   admitted to membership. Lieutenant Crimmins is at
                   this date with his regiment in the Philippines. He is
                   a son of Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city.

 1899. April 19. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass., and Stephen J.
                   Geoghegan, New York city, request to be recorded as
                   life members.

 1899. April 19. Following the meeting of the Council the members
                   thereof are received and banqueted at the
                   Narragansett, in Providence, by the Rhode Island
                   members of the Society. M. J. Harson of Providence
                   presides. Addresses are made by President-General
                   Gargan, Vice-President-General Crimmins,
                   Treasurer-General Linehan; Thomas F. O’Malley,
                   Somerville, Mass.; Rev. S. Banks Nelson
                   (Presbyterian), Woonsocket, R. I.; Rev. Frank L.
                   Phalen (Unitarian), Concord, N. H.; Capt. E.
                   O’Meagher Condon, New York city, and Joseph Smith,
                   Lowell, Mass.

 1899. April 20. Miss Annetta O’Brien Walker, Portland, Me., writes to
                   President-General Gargan, with reference to the
                   forthcoming launching of the torpedo-boat _O’Brien_.
                   She is a great-granddaughter of Captain O’Brien,
                   brother to the patriot in whose honor the boat is
                   named. Miss Walker desires to be present at the
                   launching.

 1899. April 29. Death of Joseph J. Kelley, East Cambridge, Mass., a
                   member of the Society.

 1899. May 8.    William Gorman, Philadelphia, Pa., enrolled as a life
                   member.

 1899. May 17.   Order issued by the war department to Major William
                   Quinton, 14th U. S. infantry, a member of the
                   Society, to proceed from Boston to San Francisco, and
                   thence to Manila, for service in the Philippines.

 1899. May 19.   Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York city, subscribes one
                   hundred dollars for the publication fund of the
                   Society.

 1899. May 27.   Lewis Nixon, builder of the U. S. torpedo-boat
                   _O’Brien_, writes from the Crescent shipyard,
                   Elizabeth, N. J., that: “The uncertainty as to the
                   delivery of certain forgings, making in Pennsylvania
                   for the _O’Brien_, renders it impossible, at this
                   time, for me to give you even an approximate date for
                   the launching. I am endeavoring to get some
                   information in this matter, and just as soon as I
                   receive it I shall communicate with you.” Mr. Nixon
                   states that he takes pride in the fact that he is
                   “building the _O’Brien_, which is a name honorably
                   and valorously associated with the early history of
                   our navy.”

 1899. May 30.   Secretary-General Murray attends a preliminary meeting
                   held in Boston, Mass., to form a Franco-American
                   Historical Society, and makes an address expressing
                   good wishes on behalf of the American-Irish
                   Historical body.

 1899. July.     Announcement is made that a member of the Society, Rev.
                   Cyrus Townsend Brady, Philadelphia, Pa., has written
                   a novel entitled, “For the Freedom of the Sea,” the
                   same being a romance of the War of 1812.

 1899. July 22.  Death of William Slattery, a member of the Society;
                   associate justice of the police court, Holyoke,
                   Mass.; graduate of Harvard University.

 1899. Aug. 2.   Rev. Frank L. Phalen, of the Society, is commissioned
                   chaplain of the Second Regiment of Infantry
                   (Massachusetts).

 1899. Aug. 6.   Death of Rev. George W. Pepper, D. D., Cleveland, O.,
                   vice-president of the Society for that state.

 1899. Aug. 18.  The librarian of the University of Washington, Seattle,
                   Wash., requests for the institution copies of the
                   reports and other publications of the Society. He
                   says: “We are very anxious to obtain these, and will
                   gladly pay all transportation.”

 1899. Aug. 20.  Death of Rev. Denis Scannell, rector of St. Anne’s
                   church, Worcester, Mass., a member of the Society.

 1899. Aug. 29.  Fourteenth meeting of the Council. Place: Aquidneck
                   House, Newport, R. I. Hon. John C. Linehan of
                   Concord, N. H., presides. This is the anniversary of
                   the battle of Rhode Island, 1778, in which the
                   American forces were commanded by Gen. John Sullivan.

 1899. Aug. 29.  Suggestion made at this Council meeting, and favorably
                   considered, that the Society erect a bronze tablet to
                   the memory of soldiers of Irish birth or lineage who
                   were at the battle of Bunker Hill, 1775, fighting in
                   behalf of American liberty. A committee is appointed
                   to further consider the matter.

 1899. Aug. 29.  This evening, subsequent to the Council meeting, dinner
                   was partaken of at the Aquidneck by some 25 gentlemen
                   including members of the Society and prominent
                   citizens of Newport who had been invited to be
                   present. The post-prandial exercises were presided
                   over by Hon. Charles E. Gorman of Providence, R. I.
                   Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, mayor of Newport, R. I.,
                   delivered an address of welcome, as a member of the
                   Society and as mayor of the city. The paper of the
                   evening was by Thomas Hamilton Murray,
                   secretary-general of the Society, on “The Battle of
                   Rhode Island, 1778.” Addresses were made by Hon. John
                   C. Linehan, treasurer-general of the Society; by Rev.
                   L. J. Deady of Newport, R. I.; by Dennis H. Tierney
                   of Waterbury, Conn.; by P. J. McCarthy of Providence,
                   R. I., and by J. Stacy Brown, city solicitor of
                   Newport. An original letter written by Gen. John
                   Sullivan in 1778, was read and exhibited.

 1899. Sept. 9.  In answer to an inquiry on behalf of the Society, the
                   United States navy department replies, giving
                   information as to the percentage of completion
                   attained by the torpedo boats _Blakely_ and _O’Brien_
                   and the torpedo boat destroyers _Barry_ and
                   _Macdonough_.

 1899. Oct. 2.   J. F. Hayes, M. D., the Society’s state vice-president
                   for Connecticut, is reëlected to the Waterbury,
                   Conn., board of education.

 1899. October.  Reitz, secretary of state for the Transvaal, announces
                   the appointment of Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York
                   city, as commissioner extraordinary to represent the
                   Transvaal’s interests in the United States. General
                   O’Beirne is our Society’s state vice president for
                   New York.

 1899. Oct. 7.   Fifteenth meeting of the Council of the Society is held
                   in Boston, Mass. President-General Gargan occupies
                   the chair. There are also present Messrs. Linehan,
                   Smith, Murray and Roche. It is voted to invite Sir
                   Thomas Lipton, owner of the yacht _Shamrock_, to be a
                   guest of the Society on such date as may suit his
                   convenience. A letter is received from Hon. John D.
                   Crimmins, New York city, proposing Hon. Thomas H.
                   Carter, United States senator from Montana, and
                   Thomas J. Cummins, of New York city, for membership
                   in the Society. Both gentlemen are admitted.

 1899. Oct. 11.  Sir Thomas Lipton, owner of the yacht _Shamrock_,
                   challenger for the America’s cup, writes to
                   Secretary-General Murray, cordially acknowledging the
                   invitation to be a guest of the Society. Sir Thomas’s
                   letter is dated “Steam Yacht _Erin_, Sandy Hook.” He
                   says: “Nothing would give me greater pleasure than to
                   avail myself of their [the members’] hospitality but
                   under the present uncertain conditions of weather it
                   is doubtful when the contest will be finished, which
                   renders it impossible for me, meantime, to make any
                   arrangements of the nature you are good enough to
                   suggest.”

 1899. Oct. 12.  Letter received stating that James F. Brennan,
                   Peterborough, N. H., has recently been appointed by
                   the governor and council of New Hampshire to be a
                   member of the board of state library commissioners.
                   Mr. Brennan is our Society’s vice-president for New
                   Hampshire.

 1899. Nov. 7.   Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, of the Society, is elected mayor
                   of Newport, R. I., for the sixth consecutive time.

 1899. Nov. 15.  Reception and banquet at the Bellevue, Beacon street,
                   Boston, Mass., under the auspices of the Society.
                   President-General Gargan presided. Among the guests
                   was William Ludwig, the Irish baritone. The paper of
                   the evening was by Michael E. Hennessy of the Boston
                   _Daily Globe_, his topic being, “Men of Irish Blood
                   Who Have Attained Eminence in American Journalism.”

 1899. Nov. 17.  Letter received from Col. James Armstrong, Charleston,
                   S. C. Colonel Armstrong is an editor on the
                   Charleston _News and Courier_; harbor master of the
                   port. He served on the staff of Governor Wade
                   Hampton, and is of Irish parentage.

 1899. Nov. 20.  Hon. Patrick A. Collins, a member of the Society, is
                   nominated for mayor of Boston, Mass., by the
                   Democratic convention. He is an ex-member of congress
                   and ex-United States consul-general to London,
                   England.

 1899. Nov. 20.  President-General Gargan delivered an address before
                   the Charitable Irish Society in Boston, Mass., this
                   evening. His subject was, “Naval Heroes of the
                   Revolutionary War.” In the course of his address he
                   paid a tribute to the patriotic O’Briens of Machias,
                   Me., who bravely figured in that struggle.

 1899. Nov. 21.  Letter received from Henry E. Reed, Portland, Ore.,
                   state vice-president of the Society for Oregon. He
                   regrets that he has not been able to give more
                   attention to the Society, but his duties for the past
                   two years having taken him up and down the Pacific
                   coast from Alaska to the Mexican boundary, he has
                   been pressed for time. However, he has interested a
                   number of Oregon people in the Society, and requests
                   to be supplied with membership application blanks.

 1899. Nov. 26.  Dr. Stephen J. Maher of New Haven, Conn., a member of
                   the Society, presided at a public reception in the
                   Hyperion, that city, to Lord Mayor Tallon of Dublin,
                   and Hon. John E. Redmond, M. P. Col. John G. Healy,
                   another member of the Society, opened the exercises.

 1899. Nov. 27.  An official declaration in behalf of the Society is
                   issued in Boston to-night, endorsing the project to
                   bring the remains of John Paul Jones back to this
                   country from France, where he died in 1799.

 1899. Nov. 28.  The _News and Courier_, Charleston, S. C., contains an
                   editorial to-day, speaking highly of the Society and
                   its work.

 1899. Nov. 29.  Death of Edmund Phelan, a member of the Society, at his
                   home, 32 Adams street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

 1899. Dec. 2.   Col. James Gadsden Holmes, Charleston, S. C., presents
                   to the Society a copy of the “History of the Calhoun
                   Monument” in that city. This monument was erected in
                   honor of Hon. John C. Calhoun, whose father was an
                   Irishman by birth, and was dedicated April 26, 1887.

 1899. Dec. 7.   Henry Stoddard Ruggles of Wakefield, Mass., calls the
                   Society’s attention to a work recently published by
                   the Massachusetts chapter, Daughters of the American
                   Revolution. It is entitled, “Honor Roll of
                   Massachusetts Patriots, Heretofore Unknown; being a
                   List of Men and Women who Loaned Money to the Federal
                   Government, 1777–1779.” Among the names in this list
                   are Daniel McCarthy, Dennis Tracy, Patrick Wade and
                   Daniel Ryan.

 1899. Dec. 12.  Hon. Jeremiah Crowley, of the Society, is reëlected
                   mayor of Lowell, Mass.

 1899. Dec. 13.  Thomas Carroll of Peabody, Mass., a member of the
                   Society, delivers an historical address at the
                   twenty-fifth anniversary celebration of St. John’s
                   Catholic parish in Peabody.

 1899. Dec. 19.  Thomas F. O’Malley, Somerville, Mass., a member of the
                   Society, delivers an historical lecture on “The
                   Colonial Irish” before the St. Peter’s Catholic
                   Association, Cambridge, Mass.

 1899. Dec. 30.  The _Boston Pilot_ of this date contains an article
                   from Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass., of the Society, on
                   “The Irish Brigade of Rochambeau’s Army,” giving an
                   account of its services in behalf of American
                   independence.




                   PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY, 1899.


                          THE ANNUAL MEETING.

The annual meeting of the Society for 1899 was held on Thursday evening,
Jan. 19, at Sherry’s, Forty-fourth street and Fifth avenue, New York
city. Gen. James R. O’Beirne, the Society’s state vice-president for New
York, presided, and Thomas Hamilton Murray of Woonsocket, R. I., was
secretary.

A letter was received from President-General Moseley, Washington, D. C.,
in which he expressed regret at his inability to be present. The notice
for the meeting was as follows:

                 THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

                     NOTICE OF MEETING AND BANQUET.

  DEAR SIR: You are hereby notified that the annual meeting and
  banquet of the American-Irish Historical Society will be held at
  Sherry’s, Forty-fourth street and Fifth avenue, New York city, on
  Thursday evening, Jan. 19, 1899.

  The business session will be called to order at 6:30 o’clock. Gen.
  James R. O’Beirne, our state vice-president for New York, will
  preside. Officers will be chosen for the ensuing year, the annual
  reports presented and such other business transacted as may properly
  come before the meeting.

  The banquet will take place at 8 o’clock. Tickets for the same will
  be three dollars each. They are now ready, and may be obtained of
  the secretary-general, whose address is given below.

  The post-prandial exercises will include addresses by the following
  members of the Society:

  The Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, governor of New York; the Hon. Morgan
  J. O’Brien, a justice of the New York supreme court; the Hon.
  William McAdoo, recently assistant secretary of the navy; the Hon.
  John C. Linehan, state insurance commissioner of New Hampshire; the
  Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city; the Hon. Thomas J. Gargan,
  Boston, Mass.; the Rev. John J. McCoy, Roman Catholic rector,
  Chicopee, Mass.; the Rev. Cyrus T. Brady, Protestant Episcopal
  archdeacon of Pennsylvania; James Jeffrey Roche, LL. D., editor of
  the _Boston Pilot_; Mr. John P. Holland, inventor of the submarine
  torpedo boat; Mr. Joseph Smith, secretary of the police commission,
  Lowell, Mass., and Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D., LL. D., a grand nephew
  of the Irish patriot, Robert Emmet.

  The occasion will be of great interest, and it is hoped that at
  least five hundred members and friends will be present at the
  banquet. Each member is at liberty to bring with him as many
  personal guests as he chooses. A large attendance is desired.

  It is necessary to know as soon as possible how many will attend the
  banquet, in order that proper arrangements can be made with the
  hotel people. To this end, therefore, kindly notify the
  secretary-general if you intend to be present.

                                  Fraternally,
                                            EDWARD A. MOSELEY,
                                                  _President-General_.

  THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY,
                        _Secretary-General_.
    Secretary’s address: 77 Main street, Woonsocket, R. I.

Upon the business session being called to order, the ticket placed in
nomination by the Council of the Society was presented for action.

It was unanimously accepted, adopted and declared the Society’s choice
for the ensuing year. The personnel of the ticket is set forth on pages
9, 10 and 11 of this volume.

Many new members were proposed and elected to the Society.

The annual report of the secretary-general, Thomas Hamilton Murray, was
presented. It was as follows:

                    THE SECRETARY-GENERAL’S REPORT.

  The American-Irish Historical society has become a permanent
  institution. We are now entering the third year of our existence.
  Success has attended our efforts from the start, and the future is
  bright with prospect for continued good work.

  The society already has a membership of close to 1,000, and the
  material will compare favorably with that of any historical
  organization in this country. Among our members are representatives
  of the Society of Colonial Wars, the Society of the Cincinnati, the
  Sons of the Revolution, the Military Order of Foreign Wars, the
  United States Medal of Honor Legion, the Society of Tammany, the
  Bunker Hill Monument society, the Military Order of the Loyal Legion
  and several other patriotic bodies.

  We have also in our membership representatives of literary and
  educational organizations such as the Papyrus club of Boston, the
  Twentieth Century club of that city, the American Oriental society,
  the New England Historic-Genealogical society, the Royal Society of
  Northern Antiquarians, Denmark, and the Archæological Institute of
  America. Relative to the great American universities, we number in
  our ranks alumni of Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Boston, Johns Hopkins,
  Bowdoin, Brown, Notre Dame, the University of Vermont, the
  University of Pennsylvania and the University of Virginia. The
  Catholic University at the national capital is represented on our
  roll by its rector, its vice-rector and three of the faculty.

  We have among our associates descendants of David O’Killia
  (O’Kelly), the Irishman who located on Cape Cod, Mass., as early as
  1657; of Barnabas Palmer, an Irishman, born in 1725, who was present
  at the capture of Louisburg, and of Gen. Stephen Molyan of the
  American Revolution. Three great societies composed mainly of men of
  Irish lineage are likewise represented in our organization. I refer
  to the Charitable Irish Society of Boston, founded in 1737; the
  Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of Philadelphia, and the Friendly Sons
  of St. Patrick of New York city.

  We have with us, too, many people who are prominent in law,
  medicine, and journalism, and many who have attained eminence on the
  bench, in science and art, and in mercantile pursuits. With this
  composition, the American-Irish Historical society can legitimately
  claim to be well equipped in personnel for the work it has in view.

  In the war with Spain, just closed, our Society was well
  represented, and one of our members perished in battle before
  Santiago de Cuba. Of the Society there fought on Cuban soil:
  Theodore Roosevelt of the Rough Riders; Capt. John Drum of the Tenth
  U. S. Infantry, Major W. H. Donovan of the Ninth Massachusetts, and
  Sergt. E. F. O’Sullivan, also of the Ninth.

  Gen. M. C. Butler of the Cuban Evacuation Commission is of us, while
  in the Sixty-ninth New York we are also represented.

  Since our last annual meeting seven members have died. They were:
  Dr. Joseph H. Fay, Fall River, Mass.; Mr. Andrew Athy, Worcester,
  Mass.; Mr. John R. Alley, Boston, Mass.; City Marshal John E.
  Conner, Chicopee, Mass.; Rev. Philip Grace, D. D., Newport, R. I.;
  Capt. John Drum, U. S. A., and Capt. John M. Tobin, Washington, D.
  C.

  Captain Drum, of the Tenth U. S. Infantry, was killed in battle near
  Santiago, Cuba, July 2, 1898. A braver soldier never lived. His
  obsequies took place in Boston, our Society contributing an
  appropriate floral offering. Captain Tobin died in December, last,
  at Knoxville, Tenn. Up to within a short time before his death he
  had been assistant quartermaster, First Brigade, Second Division,
  First Army Corps. During the Civil War he served gallantly in the
  Ninth Massachusetts regiment, particularly distinguishing himself at
  Malvern Hill, and being wounded at the Wilderness.

  In June, last, the Society observed its first field day, the
  exercises taking place at historic Newcastle, N. H. The occasion
  proved of great interest to all participating. The place for the
  field day event this year has not yet been selected.

  Since our last annual meeting a gathering under the auspices of our
  Rhode Island members has been held in Providence. It was presided
  over by Dennis H. Sheahan, recently clerk of the General Assembly of
  Rhode Island, and was an unlimited success. Among the guests were
  President Andrews of Brown University, Prof. Alonzo Williams of that
  institution, and other prominent gentlemen.

  The Society is to be congratulated upon the issuance of its first
  bound volume of Proceedings. The edition numbered 1,100 copies and
  has been distributed among the members, while copies have also been
  sent to public libraries, colleges, and historical societies. Of the
  pamphlet, “Irish Schoolmasters in the American Colonies,” 2,000
  copies were issued and disposed of in like manner. The pamphlet on
  “The Scotch-Irish Shibboleth” numbered 1,500 copies.

  The Society has on hand and is constantly accumulating much valuable
  material relating to the Irish chapter in American history. We are
  hampered to some extent, however, by the absence of a publication
  fund. I hope that sooner or later methods will be devised and steps
  taken to provide for this deficiency. At present the only income the
  Society has is from the membership fees. The prompt payment of these
  when due, therefore, becomes a matter of no little importance.

  Largely owing to the representations of our friends at Washington,
  the secretary of the navy has selected the names of three American
  naval officers of Irish blood for three of the new torpedo craft.
  These names are O’Brien, Barry and Macdonough. The first is to be
  applied to the torpedo boat now building at Elizabethport, N. J.,
  and the two others to torpedo-boat destroyers. The _Macdonough_ is
  now under construction at Weymouth, Mass. The _O’Brien_ is to be
  launched at Elizabethport probably the coming May.[1] I would
  suggest that the occasion and the place be appropriate for our field
  day celebration this year.

  I cannot close without calling the attention of the society to the
  continued good offices of Gen. James R. O’Beirne and Hon. John D.
  Crimmins, both of New York. This year, as last, these gentlemen have
  been indefatigable in arranging for our annual meeting here, and
  have spared no effort to make the occasion a thoroughly successful
  one. Mr. Francis C. Travers, Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet and other
  gentlemen residing in New York have also shown much active interest,
  and deserve the gratitude of the society.

The report of the secretary-general, thus presented, was accepted and
adopted.

Hon. John C. Linehan, of Concord, N. H., submitted his report for the
year. It showed the following aggregates:

                               RECEIPTS.

           Balance on hand as per last report         $672.96
           Three life membership fees at $50           150.00
           615 annual membership fees                1,845.00
           From dinner tickets at Providence, R. I.     80.00
           From dinner tickets at New York city        160.00
                                                     ————————
                                                    $2,907.96



                             EXPENDITURES.

           Various (as set forth in detail)         $2,389.36
                                                    —————————
                       Balance on hand                $518.60

An auditing committee, consisting of Secretary-General Murray, James
Jeffrey Roche of Boston and Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass., reported
having examined the books and vouchers of the treasurer-general, and
found the same correct.

The treasurer-general’s report was thereupon unanimously accepted and
adopted.

The importance of raising a fund to forward the work of the Society,
especially in the matter of publications, was discussed, Judge Wauhope
Lynn of New York city and other gentlemen talking to the question. The
matter was finally referred to the Council for action. The business
meeting then adjourned.


                          THE ANNUAL BANQUET.

Upon the adjournment of the business meeting, the company formed in line
and proceeded to the annual banquet. Gen. James R. O’Beirne of New York
city presided.

Back of the presiding officer’s chair were displayed an American and an
Irish flag. An orchestra was stationed in the balcony.

Grace was said by Rev. Joshua P. Bodfish of Canton, Mass.

Among those seated at the tables were noted the following:

 Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York city.
 Rev. Joshua P. Bodfish, Canton, Mass.
 Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.
 Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York city.
 Hon. Joseph F. Daly, New York city.
 Hon. Thomas Dunn English, Newark, N. J.
 Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.
 Hon. Wauhope Lynn, New York city.
 Hon. Franklin M. Danaher, Albany, N. Y.
 Hon. Thomas F. Gilroy, New York city.
 Hon. William McAdoo, New York city.
 Hon. Patrick Garvan, Hartford, Conn.
 Hon. James A. O’Gorman, New York city.
 Hon. Joseph P. Fallon, New York city.
 Hon. Maurice J. Power, New York city.
 Hon. Andrew J. White, New York city.
 Hon. James S. Coleman, New York city.
 Hon. John E. Fitzgerald, New York city.
 Rev. John J. McCoy, P. R., Chicopee, Mass.
 Rev. Thomas Smyth, Springfield, Mass.
 Rev. M. J. Lavelle, New York city.
 Rev. Richard Neagle, Malden, Mass.
 Rev. T. W. Wallace, New York city.
 Rev. Martin Murphy, Great Barrington, Mass.
 Rev. J. J. Howard, Worcester, Mass.
 Rev. John W. McMahon, D. D., Boston, Mass.
 Rev. Philip J. Gormley, Boston, Mass.
 Rev. J. T. Danahy, Newton, Mass.
 Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York city.
 Dr. Philip Kilroy, Springfield, Mass.
 Dr. Stephen J. Maher, New Haven, Conn.
 Dr. Farquhar Ferguson, New York city.
 Dr. J. F. Hayes, Waterbury, Conn.
 Dr. P. J. Cassidy, Norwich, Conn.
 Dr. T. F. Harrington, Lowell, Mass.
 Dr. Thomas J. Dillon, Boston, Mass.
 Dr. J. Duncan Emmet, New York city.
 Dr. C. E. Nammack, New York city.
 Dr. D. B. Lovell, Worcester, Mass.
 Dr. Francis J. Quinlan, New York city.
 Dr. W. M. E. Mellen, Chicopee, Mass.
 Dr. J. J. Morrissey, New York city.
 James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.
 Thomas Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I.
 Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.
 Thomas B. Lawler, New York city.
 John T. F. Mac Donnell, Holyoke, Mass.
 Pierce Kent, New York city.
 M. A. Toland, Boston, Mass.
 John F. McAlevy, Pawtucket, R. I.
 Stephen J. Geoghegan, New York city.
 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, Boston, Mass.
 T. A. Emmet, Jr., New York city.
 John Crane, New York city.
 Edmund Reardon, Cambridge, Mass.
 Col. John McManus, Providence, R. I.
 P. T. Barry, Chicago, Ill.
 Capt. Wm. J. Carlton, New York city.
 Thomas F. Somers, New York city.
 R. Walter Powell, St. Joseph, Mo.
 Patrick Kilroy, Springfield, Mass.
 Capt. E. O’Meagher Condon, New York city.
 Charles F. Coburn, Lowell, Mass.
 Dennis H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.
 John Goodwin, New York city.
 Michael Brennan, New York city.
 M. A. O’Byrne, New York city.
 Humphrey O’Sullivan, Lowell, Mass.
 Col. John G. Healy, New Haven, Conn.
 Daniel Donovan, Lynn, Mass.
 Florence G. Donovan, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 William Lane, Brooklyn, N. Y.
 John J. Rooney, New York city.
 Joseph I. C. Clarke, New York city.
 Richard Healey, Worcester, Mass.
 James A. Fogarty, New Haven, Conn.
 J. Francis Jones, New York city.
 R. E. Danvers, New York city.
 M. E. Hennessy, Boston, Mass.
 Francis C. Travers, New York city.
 Vincent P. Travers, New York city.
 Joseph F. Swords, New York city.
 Col. Henry L. Swords, New York city.
 John F. Doyle, New York city.
 Col. John F. Doyle, Jr., New York city.
 Alfred L. Doyle, New York city.
 James Curran, New York city.
 Michael Gavin, 2d, New York city.
 Thomas S. Brennan, New York city.
 T. St. John Gaffney, New York city.
 E. A. McQuade, Lowell, Mass.
 Edmund O’Keefe, New Bedford, Mass.
 William Lyman, New York city.
 Edward O’Flaherty, New York city.
 Louis V. O’Donohue, New York city.
 Michael J. Dowd, Lowell, Mass.
 Francis W. Foley, New Haven, Ct.
 M. J. Drummond, New York city.
 E. J. O’Shaughnessy, New York city.
 John J. Pulleyn, New York city.
 Patrick Gilbride, Lowell, Mass.
 Thomas H. Boyle, Lowell, Mass.
 William P. Mellon, New York city.

The following gentlemen, all of New York city, were likewise present:

 Richard Deeves.
 John G. O’Keefe.
 James J. Phelan.
 David A. Brien.
 James G. Johnson.
 John Vincent.
 B. Moynahan.
 Mark P. Brennan.
 Edmund M. Brennan.
 Thomas F. Brennan.
 Joseph J. Ryan.
 R. M. Walters.
 Edward J. McGuire.
 John H. McCarthy.
 Michael E. Bannin.
 Thomas S. Bannin.
 J. P. Callahan.
 E. J. Farrell.
 John Vesey.
 Andrew Little.
 P. Gallagher.
 James Flynn.
 John D. Moore.
 N. J. Barrett.
 John O’Connell.
 Isaac Bell Brennan.
 George Coleman.

In addition to the foregoing, the following were also present. Residence
is not given, but a majority are believed to be of New York city:

 A. Fred Brown.
 Thomas R. Hall.
 William H. Hume.
 Frederick T. Hume.
 John Connelly.
 James F. Minturn.
 John C. McGuire.
 John Kirkpatrick.
 William J. Farrell.
 T. S. Danahy.
 C. H. Conway.
 John P. Kelly.
 Wm. H. Kelly.
 A. B. Carlton.
 J. J. Gleason.
 F. C. O’Reilly.
 J. J. Clingen.
 George E. Kilgore.
 J. DeM. Thompson.
 J. F. Slevin.
 Charles Black.
 Owen J. Carney.
 Patrick C. Meehan.
 Theodore Meehan.
 M. D. Greene.
 Wm. J. Fanning.
 John McKean.
 R. W. Powell.
 John Callaghan.
 Austin Finnegan.
 George F. Crowley.
 P. A. Moynahan.
 Arthur B. Waring.
 F. C. Hodgdon.
 Richard Dixon.
 T. T. Tomlinson.
 G. B. Warriner.
 Thomas F. Glynn.

Upon the cigars being lighted, Gen. James R. O’Beirne, the presiding
officer, arose and in a neat speech opened the after-dinner exercises.

He first introduced Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet of New York city, who read a
paper on “Irish Emigration During the Seventeenth and Eighteenth
Centuries.”

Hon. John C. Linehan of Concord, N. H., followed with a paper on “Some
Pre-Revolutionary Irishmen,” which was well received, and proved of much
value and interest.

Rev. John J. McCoy of Chicopee, Mass., read an able paper on “The Irish
Element in the Second Massachusetts Volunteers in the Recent War” (with
Spain).

James Jeffrey Roche, editor of _The Pilot_, Boston, Mass., entertained
the company with a paper touching upon the work of the Society, and was
frequently applauded.

John Jerome Rooney of New York city recited a fine poem on “The Irish
Name,” and elicited the plaudits of the company.

Thomas J. Gargan of Boston, Mass., the new president-general, delivered
a stirring address relative to the Society’s mission.

Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass., made a short address, urging the
establishment of a fund to assist the organization in carrying on its
work. He also read a letter from Jeremiah Curtin, the author, who was
then visiting Russia.

During the evening an address from Edward A. Moseley of Washington, D.
C., the retiring president-general, was presented, Mr. Moseley not being
able to attend in person.

Capt. E. O’Meagher Condon of New York city made a brief address, which
was well received.

At intervals during the evening the company joined in singing patriotic
American and Irish selections, accompanied by the orchestra.

There were also addresses by Hon. Thomas Dunn English of Newark, N. J.,
and Hon. William McAdoo, recently assistant secretary of the United
States navy, whose remarks aroused much enthusiasm.

Letters regretting their inability to attend the gathering were received
from Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, governor of New York; Hon. George F. Hoar,
Washington, D. C.; Hon. George Fred Williams, Boston, Mass.; E. Benjamin
Andrews, superintendent of public schools, Chicago, Ill., and from other
gentlemen.

Before adjourning, General O’Beirne reminded the members that Hon.
Theodore Roosevelt, who had expected to be present to-night but was
unable, would give the Society a reception the next afternoon (Jan. 20)
at 4 o’clock. The reception would take place at the residence of the
governor’s sister, Mrs. Cowles, Madison avenue. General O’Beirne
requested the members to meet at the Hotel Savoy at 3:30 p.m., in order
that they might proceed to the governor’s reception in a body. The
company then adjourned.


                    GOVERNOR ROOSEVELT’S RECEPTION.

Pursuant to the agreement made at the meeting the previous evening, a
large number of the members of the Society met at the Hotel Savoy, New
York, on the afternoon of Jan. 20, 1899. About half an hour later they
formed in line and walked to the residence of Mrs. Cowles, the
governor’s sister, on Madison avenue.

They were received by Governor Roosevelt, assisted by Mrs. Cowles. Each
member of the Society present was introduced by General O’Beirne, and
was cordially greeted.

After all had been introduced, Governor Roosevelt made a charming little
speech, expressing his pleasure at meeting the Society’s
representatives. He also expressed regret at having been unable to
attend the Society’s dinner last night, but official duties had
prevented.

He complimented the Society on the work in which it is engaged, and said
that such historical bodies are capable of a great deal of good. He paid
an eloquent tribute to the soldier of Irish extraction in American
military life, and recalled special instances where this element’s valor
had been displayed. The governor spoke feelingly of Capt. “Bucky”
O’Neill, one of the officers who had served under him in the “Rough
Riders” during the war with Spain, and said that he was one of the best
captains in the regiment.

Upon the conclusion of his address, the governor invited those present
to partake of a lunch that had been prepared, and the invitation was
cordially accepted.

After bidding adieu to the governor and his sister, many of the members
accepted an invitation from Hon. John D. Crimmins and participated in a
reception at the latter’s residence, 40 East 68th street, New York. It
proved a most enjoyable occasion.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The leading addresses made, papers read, etc., at the annual meeting
here follow:




                    ADDRESSES MADE AND PAPERS READ.

       AT THE ANNUAL MEETING, THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 19, 1899.


     LETTER FROM EDWARD A. MOSELEY, THE RETIRING PRESIDENT-GENERAL.

Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C., the retiring president-general of
the Society, wrote as follows:

  _To the Members of the American-Irish Historical Society_:

  BROTHERS:—I regret very much that it will be impossible for me to
  attend the annual meeting of our Society on the 19th instant. I have
  been under medical treatment during the past ten days, and I am
  still far from well, and am advised by my physician that it would be
  very unwise for me to leave the city for some time to come.

  It would be an exceeding pleasure to me to be with you, and to meet
  so many of the distinguished gentlemen of our Society who will be
  present, and who will, no doubt, illuminate with their wit and
  eloquence the banquet hall at Sherry’s on the evening of the 19th. I
  shall be with you in spirit, but as I cannot be there in person,
  would you kindly make a few suggestions for me at the meeting.

  I have received the copy of Volume I of the _Journal_. It is a
  handsome volume, and a publication creditable to its editors and our
  Society. My only regret is that we cannot afford to publish such
  works extensively, and place one in the household of every American
  who boasts of his supposed Anglo-Saxon ancestry, and especially in
  the hands of our dear brethren, the “Scotch-Irish” advocates, who
  take so much pains to distinguish themselves from the mere Irish
  element.

  In these days, when the brotherhood of man does not count for so
  much as in the early days of the republic, and when some are
  dividing themselves into classes and races and assuming superiority
  for the so-called “Anglo-Saxon race” over all the other races of men
  created by Almighty God, it seems to me that, as we do not claim to
  be of the “Anglo-Saxon race,” we should not submit to the
  implication contained in the term that all other peoples, including
  the Irish, are inferiors in race.

  It is, therefore, high time for us to reassert and emphasize our
  protest against the claim that the American people belong to the
  “Anglo-Saxon race,” or that any of the Caucasian peoples are in any
  degree inferior in race to any other. Where differences exist it is
  a question of environment. After two or three generations, no one
  can perceive any radical distinctions between Americans descended
  from ancestors who were Englishmen, Irishmen, Scotchmen, Welshmen,
  Dutchmen, Germans, Scandinavians or of any other European
  nationality.

  As there never was an “Anglo-Saxon” race—that being a term which
  designated two German tribes—we repudiate any suggestion that
  American civilization or progress is materially indebted to any
  supposed Anglo-Saxon element in our composition. On the contrary, we
  assert that all European nationalities have contributed to our
  advancement and magnificent citizenship.

  The purpose of our Society is not to attribute all our splendid
  traits and achievements alone to the Irish element in our
  composition. Unlike our Anglomaniac brethren, who contend that
  everything great and good must be Anglo-Saxon, we merely claim
  credit for a just share in the upbuilding of the nation.

  I would like the learned gentlemen of our Society to enlighten the
  average American, from time to time, in his local newspaper or on
  the rostrum, in respect to this Anglo-Saxon fetish. This has already
  been done for the American student by many distinguished
  ethnologists. It is easy to give object lessons on this line by the
  color of the hair and the eyes, and the shape of the skull, features
  which demonstrate beyond question that men of the supposed
  Anglo-Saxon type are the rare exceptions in our make-up, and are
  often very far from being at the top of the scale in any respect;
  while on the other hand, men of the received Celtic type compose the
  overwhelming majority in this country and in the British Isles—even
  in England itself, and in every part of England. They are in the
  vast majority all over the world wherever the English tongue
  prevails.

  Many of the gentlemen of our Society can write just such admirable
  papers as Mr. Bocock contributed to the _Cosmopolitan_ magazine of
  this month (who confined himself, however, to instances of Irishmen
  who achieved great fame). No one has done more in this direction
  than our respected vice-president for the District of Columbia, Mr.
  J. D. O’Connell, whose pen has ever been at the service of his
  countrymen, particularly in this respect.

  Whenever an Irishmen attains to fame or distinction in war,
  literature, art, law, or statesmanship in the British Empire, he is
  immediately claimed to be an Englishman, and, consequently, as
  displaying “Anglo-Saxon” pluck and “Anglo-Saxon” intellect.

  The truth is, that among all those who have achieved great
  prominence in the English-speaking world, the Anglo-Saxon type is
  conspicuous by its absence. Nine times in ten, when a man boasts of
  “Anglo-Saxon” pluck, enterprise, ability, and progress, he himself
  is not of that type of man, and nine-tenths of the incidents he
  cites were brought about through the pluck, enterprise, ability and
  progress which came from mixed blood.

  I can only liken this misrepresentation of the truth of history to
  the rattling of peas in a bladder, shaken by one of Shakespeare’s
  clowns. Puncture the bladder, my friends, whenever and wherever it
  is shaken. Tell the clown who calls himself an “Anglo-Saxon” that he
  is an ass! and prove to him by the color of his hair, the color of
  his eyes, and the shape of his skull that he is a Celt, a Milesian,
  a Latin, or anything but an “Anglo-Saxon,” and that if it was ever
  true that the English people were Anglo-Saxon, and that the
  Anglo-Saxons were ever, at any time, the greatest people on
  earth—superior to all other races—that time has so long since passed
  away that no one now remembers it, and no true history chronicles
  when and where they flourished.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  But I have already trespassed too far on this line. Permit me to
  wish you all, if not too late, a very happy and prosperous New Year,
  and also to say to you that, as I have been twice honored by
  election to the presidency of the Society—and that is, I think,
  sufficient honor for any member—I beg to invoke the national rule
  against a third term. Therefore, if any friend of mine should be so
  indiscreet as to nominate me for that office, I request and urge you
  to ask him to immediately withdraw the nomination.

                                  Fraternally yours,
                                            EDWARD A. MOSELEY,
                                                  _President-General_.

  WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 17, 1899.




   IRISH EMIGRATION DURING THE SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURIES.

              BY THOMAS ADDIS EMMET, M. D., NEW YORK CITY.


Irish people were among the pioneers in this country from almost the
first settlement on the Atlantic coast, and continued until the line of
immigration had crossed the continent to the Pacific.

The Colonial records bear testimony that Irish people were here at an
early period, and so many hamlets on the frontier were designated by
distinctive Irish names that had we no other proof than these facts, we
could not honestly divest ourselves of the conviction that Ireland
contributed more in numbers for the development of this country than
came from any other one source.

Great injustice has been done the Irish people by depriving them of
credit so justly due them. This has resulted partially from ignorance,
but to a greater extent it is due to an influence exerted prior to the
first settlement in this country. The purpose which prompts this
injustice has been maintained through English influence, and has always
been wanting so much in charity to the Irish people, that we can hope to
accomplish little in any effort to establish the truth so long as
individuals in this country are willing to have their judgment
influenced by the policy of a foreign power.

The same influence has been as actively engaged in claiming that we are
English; that this country is consequently “a worthy daughter of a more
worthy mother!” Yet my investigations have impressed me with the belief
that of the seventy-five millions forming our present population, there
are a far greater number of individuals who could be more certain of
their African origin, than there are those who could prove a direct
English descent.

It is not sufficient to show proof of an ancestor sailing from an
English port, as all such were rated during the seventeenth century as
English, without reference to their nationality. Moreover the bearing of
an English name would be no more conclusive, as we shall show that a
large proportion of the “Wild Irish” were compelled by law to assume
English surnames, which their descendants bear at the present time.

I have no precise data bearing directly upon the earliest immigration of
the Irish to this country, for none exists. On the other hand, the
assertion that they were among the first settlers, and the most numerous
afterwards, cannot be rejected or disproved. I will now very clearly
show, as circumstantial evidence, that throughout the greater portion of
the seventeenth century a dire provocation existed, and that the
Catholics were driven out of Ireland by a persecution which has never
been equaled. The world to-day is in ignorance of the fact, since a
complete history of Ireland, and of the suffering borne by a majority of
the people, has yet to be written.

Whenever an advantage was to be gained by falsifying an historical event
in connection with Ireland, the English government has never hesitated,
in the past, to exercise its influence for that purpose. Yet with a
strange inconsistency every record in the keeping of the government
bearing upon its own immediate history, is zealously preserved,
notwithstanding the most damning testimony is thus furnished of
corruption, double dealing and crime.

As an American I would gladly have laid aside all religious appellations
if it had been possible otherwise to have done justice to my subject,
but unfortunately, as a consequence of the prejudices of centuries, not
a few people regard the “Protestant Irishman,” the “Presbyterian
Irishman,” and the “Catholic Irishman” as so many distinct species of
the human family. The necessity, therefore, exists in doing justice to
Ireland, that all at least in relation to the Catholic portion should be
made prominent, as this precludes the plea of being either English or
“Scotch-Irish.”

But as regards the race, the fact is that even within the period of
which we shall treat in regard to the forced emigration, there remained
in Ireland but little of the pure old Celtic stock. The inhabitants of
Ireland had been gradually becoming a mixed people, and were as much of
an aggregation as the population of the United States is a
conglomeration of all other races. Yet there is something in the Irish
climate and surroundings, which, even within a generation, exercises a
powerful influence in bringing the descendants of all foreigners to a
type possessing much in common, and with characteristics unlike any
other people.

It was not until near the close of the reign of Charles the First, that
the Irish people were forced to emigrate. Therefore, I propose to begin
with a brief reference to the so-called “Rebellion of 1641.”

In this movement Charles the First of England was the active spirit, and
if ever a man richly deserved his fate through retributive justice,
Charles rightly suffered. His inhuman treatment of the Irish people, who
had been most loyal to him, would have justified his execution if no
other cause existed. No historical event, which antedates the testimony
of living witnesses, can be more clearly established in all its details
than the history of this forced outbreak in 1641, and this can be done
notwithstanding there are few instances in history which have been more
distorted by falsehood.

It would not be germane to my subject to enter into detail at greater
length than to establish the provocation, or necessity existing at this
time, for a large emigration of the Irish people. The English government
had long held for the crown an absurd claim which involved the title of
every estate in Connaught. The Catholics held nine tenths of the land
and they bore in numbers about the same proportion to the population.
During the reign of James an effort had been made to clear off this
claimed lien, and large sums of money had been paid by the owners to the
English government for this purpose, with the understanding that these
transactions should be made a public record.

When Charles came to the throne it was found that James had appropriated
this money for his own use, and the only record existing was one in
which only the title of estates held by Protestants was established.

For an additional sum Charles promised, among many other promises which
he did not keep, to have the title of the estates held by the Catholics
cleared of all government claims, wherever the holder could prove his
right of possession. For this ostensible purpose a commission was
appointed, at the head of which was the Lord Chief Justice and the chief
prosecuting officer for the crown in Ireland.

It is now known that the real object of the commission was to obtain
some pretext for a general confiscation of the land, and to make a
plantation of Catholic Connaught, after the people had been disposed of.
As a stimulus to the zeal of these officers an additional bonus of two
shillings on the pound was granted from the value of each estate
confiscated to the crown, when made on the plea of a defective title.
The owner was generally made foreman of the jury and whenever the
verdict was a “Prevarication on the evidence,” as it was termed, and not
for the crown, he was fined to bankruptcy, his estate confiscated
“legally,” and the jurymen were both fined and imprisoned.

But this semblance of justice proved to be too slow a process, so the
country was suddenly overrun with English troops to force an extended
outbreak. Additional instructions were given to exterminate, if
possible, the whole Catholic population, English as well as Irish, as is
clearly proved by the writings of Leland, Clarendon, Warner, Carte, and
other writers, who had no sympathy for the Irish people.

The cattle and all available property were seized; persons in all
stations of life were imprisoned, without having charges preferred
against them, or they were wilfully murdered without provocation; the
wives and daughters of the Catholic Irish were subjected to unspeakable
brutality, and it was a frequent boast that no woman was spared; the
well and the sick, the young and the old were indiscriminately turned
adrift, their houses were burned, and all provisions and stores which
could not be used by the troops were wantonly destroyed.

No less than three thousand heads of families, constituting the Catholic
nobility and gentry, and the owners of the land in the west of Ireland
were imprisoned, charged with treason, and their property was seized.

A new commission was now formed, consisting of judge and jurymen in
English interests, yet who were sworn, it is supposed, to investigate
with some pretext to honesty the charge of treason against these
individuals. As a result of their labors _over one thousand indictments
were drawn up by this commission in two days_, by which each individual
was found guilty of treason, thus losing his life, and his property was
seized for the crown! If it be assumed that this jury worked
continuously each day for twelve hours, the average would be about one
indictment for a little less than every minute and a half. During which
time it was supposed that witnesses duly sworn were examined as to the
guilt of each individual, and after due deliberation, and after giving
the prisoner the benefit of all doubt, where the testimony was deemed
unreliable, the verdict had been rendered.

Is it possible to conceive of a more complete travesty on justice? The
prisoners knew nothing of the proceedings, and the average time for
conviction of less than one minute and a half was scarcely sufficient to
add the signatures necessary to give each death warrant a semblance of
legality.

By this one transaction the British crown came into possession of some
ten millions of acres, which was a little more than one half of all the
available land in Ireland.

Between five and six hundred thousand men, women, and children were
slaughtered, or died from starvation. Many thousand were sent to the
West Indies, or to the American colonies, and sold as slaves. A limited
number escaped to the mountains, where many died from starvation, and
the remainder lived for years a life in common with the wild beasts,
with a price upon their heads, and were hunted as such. The whole and
entire population of this great tract of country disappeared, and was
literally wiped out.

Shortly after, Cromwell overran the south and southwestern portion of
Ireland which was also chiefly settled by Catholics, and they received
as little mercy from his army as had been meted out to those of their
creed in Connaught. When Cromwell had completed his work at least two
thirds of the landed property in Ireland had been confiscated; and after
the greater portion of the Catholic Irish men, women, and children had
been put to the sword, or driven into exile, the whole country became
resettled with his soldiers, or by persons devoted to the English
interest. Over one hundred thousand young children, who had been made
orphans, or who were taken from their Catholic parents, were sent to the
West Indies, to Virginia, or to New England, that they might thus lose
their faith, as well as all knowledge of their nationality.

During this period thousands of Irishmen were driven into exile, to
enter the armies of European nations, or to emigrate and settle on the
frontiers of the American colonies, as a bulwark against the Indians,
for the protection of the more favored settlers on the coast.

In addition, a host of both men and women who were taken prisoners, were
sold in Virginia and New England as slaves, and without respect to their
former station in life.

In later years, certain writers have attempted to pervert the truth by
claiming that these men and women, who were refined and educated, and
who had been the owners of the confiscated lands, were convicts. But I
have not been able to obtain any reliable evidence to prove that
Virginia or any of the American colonies were ever made penal
settlements.

The Catholics of Ireland were the only people of Europe who had at this
time so great a necessity for leaving their country. It is a well
established fact that during the greater part of the eighteenth century
thousands of able-bodied male Catholics, in the south and western
portion of Ireland, left the country at an early period of life for some
European port, and very few ever returned. This is corroborated by the
circumstance that the Catholic population of Ireland steadily decreased
during this period, and at one time it was less than half a million of
individuals scattered through the bogs and wilds of the country.

The wealthy English people invested their money freely in the early
settlement of the West Indies and in Virginia, but they remained at
home. The middle and lower classes, who were more likely to have
emigrated to a new country, were, to a great extent, contented at home.
They had no cause to leave it, as the political changes which occurred
in England during the seventeenth century had a decided tendency to
better their condition.

I believe that with the exception of some among the first settlers in
Virginia and New England, the far greater portion of the English who did
emigrate during the seventeenth and the first half of the eighteenth
century, went to Bermuda, Barbadoes, Jamaica, and the other West India
Islands, and did not come to this country. The American colonies were
mostly settled under a grant to some proprietor or corporation, with
more restrictions on business pursuits than were made by the English
government for the West India Islands. Consequently the field for
individual enterprise was greater on the Islands.

Those of English birth who settled on the main land did so largely in
Virginia and Carolina, and as a rule their business was confined to the
seaport towns. I believe that a larger proportion of the English than of
any other people, when successful in business, returned in after life to
their native country, or went with their families to Barbadoes or
Jamaica to invest their money in sugar plantations. It is from this
circumstance that these islands have always been more English in
character than any American colony now within the territory of the
United States.

For an Irishman without means there was no opening in any of the West
India Islands but as a common laborer. In the American colonies,
however, he could easily reach the frontiers, free from all restriction
after he had served out the time necessary to pay for his passage, and
could there establish his independence with the labor of clearing off
the forest from the land selected by himself.

In consequence of the restrictions made by England to destroy Irish
commerce, it is well known that for several centuries the intercourse
between Ireland and different continental countries, by means of vessels
engaged in smuggling, was far greater than by any communication with
England, which was almost an unknown land to the west coast Irishman.

It is not possible to form even an estimate as to the numbers of Irish
who went by means of these smugglers chiefly to France and Spain. We
only know the fact that a steady current of impoverished Irishmen passed
over to the continent year after year. We also know that a very large
number served in the armies of those countries, but it is doubtful,
under any circumstances, if more than a comparatively small proportion
of the number could have been thus provided for. Of the remaining
portion but few could have had any other means of support, and no other
explanation presents itself but emigration to America from necessity,
and on their arrival in a foreign vessel their nationality would have
been overlooked.

The English government during the eighteenth century allowed no vessel,
knowingly, to sail from Ireland direct, but it was necessary by law
first to visit an English port before clearance papers could be obtained
for the voyage. A record was also kept for the purpose of collecting a
head tax on every individual thus leaving an English port for the
colonies. I have gone carefully over this register, and to my surprise
scarcely a name appears which could be identified with Ireland.
Notwithstanding this fact the official register has been cited in proof
that there was no emigration from Ireland but those who were sent abroad
in servitude, and consequently that this country for a century, at
least, was settled chiefly by English people.

But we must remember that every Irishman in Ireland within reach of
English authority was at that time governed by the following law: “An
act that Irishmen dwelling in the counties of, etc. ... go appareled
like Englishmen and wear their beards after the English manner, swear
allegiance, and take English sirnames; which sirnames shall be of one
town, as Sutton, Chester, Trim, Skryne, Corke, Kinsale; or colours, as
white, black, brown; or arts or sciences, as smith or carpenter; or
office, as cook, butler, etc., and it is enacted that he and his issue
shall use this name under pain of forfeyting of his goods yearly, etc.”
As a consequence, every Irish emigrant crossing in an Irish or English
vessel and from either England or Ireland, appeared in the official
record as English, for the voyage did not begin according to law until
cleared from an English port.

By this circumstance we prove the converse, that a large Irish
emigration did reach this country by some route which was not under
English control. How otherwise can we explain the presence of undoubted
Irish surnames unchanged, as found in early records of the country? And
on the other hand we find to-day Irishmen and their descendants in this
country, bearing the names of Sutton, Chester, Kinsale, White, Black,
Brown, Smith, Carpenter, Cook, Butler, etc., proving thereby that this
law was enforced, by which they were deprived of their pure Irish names,
and that they did not change these names after coming to this country.

Virginia was undoubtedly first settled by the English, but at an early
period the Irish began to come in, bound to serve a stated term in
payment for their passage money, but eventually these people became free
men, settling down on the frontier, and their descendants in the next
generation, as indicated by their names appearing in the records, began
to take part in the affairs of the colony.

Maryland was largely settled by Irish Catholics, and Calvert himself
received his title of Lord Baltimore from a place in the southwest of
Ireland.

William Penn spent a portion of his life in Ireland before he received
his grant in America. A number of his followers were Irish, and the most
prominent person next to Penn himself was James Logan, an Irishman, who
acted as governor of the province for a number of years. He was most
tolerant to the Irish Catholics, who were allowed free exercise of their
religion, and they received protection in this colony from the first
settlement.

Many of those who first settled in New Jersey were from Ireland, and
there were undoubtedly some Irish in New Amsterdam. In the Jesuit
Relations it is shown that Father Jogues, who afterwards suffered the
death of a martyr among the Indians of Central New York, came about 1642
from Canada to administer to some of his faith then living among the
Dutch and in New Jersey.

In 1634 the General Court of Massachusetts Bay granted lands on the
Merrimac river for an Irish settlement, and there were many Irishmen who
served in King Philip’s Indian War, whose names are still preserved in
the colonial records. I have a record of the fact, but neglected to note
the authority, of a reference to a contemporaneous account of a fearful
storm which occurred in the winter of 1634–’35, off the north coast of
Ireland.[2] As one of the incidents mention is made of the shipwreck of
a vessel filled with Irish emigrants, on the second day out of their
voyage to join, as was stated, the Merrimac river settlement in New
England.

This straw of information is a valuable indication in our current of
circumstantial evidence. It establishes the fact by another source that
an Irish settlement was planned on the Merrimac river as early as 1634.
It also shows that however intolerant the New England Puritans were
sometimes to the Irish in their immediate surroundings, they did
tolerate in this instance and likely in many others, the “fighting
Irish,” as they were termed. In fact they gave little thought to their
religious belief so long as they remained on the frontier to fight the
Indians. This incident shows that emigrants sailed from the north of
Ireland for this settlement, notwithstanding it may have been necessary
to have officially commenced their voyage from an English port. The fact
as to their religion is established by a knowledge of the condition of
the country at that particular time, which I have attempted to describe.
The Catholics were fleeing in all directions from the districts of
country which had been laid waste, and in some instances they had to
subsist on the dead bodies of those who had preceded them, and who had
died on the way from starvation. Comparatively few but Catholics left
Ireland at this time, as individuals in sympathy with the English were
then busy in bettering their condition by securing a portion of the
spoils.

There were a number of adult Catholics, as I have stated, sent out to
New England through the efforts of Cromwell, and, although they may not
have come at that time as willing emigrants, they were not likely to
have lost their faith under the circumstances, and their descendants
must afterwards have become identified with the country.

Prendergast in “The Cromwellian Settlement of Ireland,” states the
following: “As one instance out of many: Captain Vernon was employed by
the commissioners for Ireland into [from] England, and contracted in
their behalf with Mr. David Selleck and Mr. Leader, under his hand,
bearing date of 14th of September, 1653, to supply them with two hundred
and fifty women of the Irish nation, above twelve years and under the
age of forty-five, also three hundred men above twelve years of age and
under fifty, to be found in the country within twenty miles of Cork ...
to transplant them into New England.” These men and women were seized
and sold in New England at a profit for the English commissioners.
Prendergast further states in this connection: “How many girls of gentle
birth must have been caught and hurried to the private prisons of these
men-catchers none can tell.” “But at last the evil became too shocking
and notorious, particularly when these dealers in Irish flesh began to
seize the daughters and children of the English themselves, and to force
them on board their slave ships; then, indeed, the orders, at the end of
four years, were revoked.”

If we take into consideration the total number of “Puritan Fathers” in
New England at this time, it would seem not improbable that these two
hundred and fifty young Irish women, with many others sent over from
Ireland about the same time, must have all eventually been transformed
at least into Irish Puritans. If so their progeny must in time have
given quite a Hibernian tint to the blue blood of the descendants from
the _Mayflower_. I have not found that the New England writers have
noted these facts, but probably they failed to do so on evidence that
they were not “Scotch-Irish” women.

From the time that William of Orange possessed himself of the British
crown and until the beginning of our Revolution, a steady stream of
emigrants passed out of Ireland to this country. The English government
manifested a determination to destroy utterly every Irish industry, and
this policy was maintained until the Volunteer movement, when for a
period a portion at least of the Irish people had charge of their own
affairs.

William, of “Blessed Memory,” in consequence of his hatred of the Irish
people, both Catholic and Protestant, caused the destruction of all
woolen manufactories, and other industries of the north of Ireland. The
so-called “Scotch-Irish” were chiefly the sufferers at this time, and as
a consequence thousands of them emigrated to France, where, with the
assistance of the French government, these people established in that
country woolen and silk industries which, for nearly two hundred years,
have been a constant menace to England’s trade.

After the departure of a large portion of these people from Ulster, the
country became again gradually settled up from England, and by Catholic,
Presbyterian, and Protestant Irish from different parts of Ireland, who
were not Scotch.

In a few years later a large proportion of the Irish Presbyterians, with
a limited number of Catholics in Ulster, became engaged in commerce and
various manufacturing interests. But all these people were ultimately
ruined by England’s policy, that Ireland should not prosper, and they
were gradually forced to leave the country to better their condition by
emigration to the American colonies.

The Presbyterians who settled in the north of Ireland, after the early
part of the eighteenth century, had come chiefly from the central
portion of England, and as a rule represented the better element among
the new settlers. They, like Cromwell, hated the Scotch, and would never
have accepted the term “Scotch-Irish” for themselves. After “the
Restoration” these people in common with the Catholics, were only
tolerated as non-conformists, and were not allowed by the Protestant
authorities to take any part in public affairs.

From adversity these people became in time more tolerant towards their
fellow sufferers, the Catholic portion of the population, and were
finally moulded into a remarkably fine and self-reliant type of men.
Those who emigrated to the colonies were well fitted to help lay the
foundation of the American Republic, and those who remained behind
proved sturdy patriots. A little more than one hundred years ago they
originated in Belfast the United Irishmen movement, and they were the
first to make the demand for religious tolerance in Ireland, that their
Catholic countrymen might be free to worship God according to the
dictates of their conscience.

During the last century, Maine, New Hampshire, the greater part of
Vermont and west Massachusetts, west Pennsylvania, a large portion of
Maryland, the western part of Virginia, between the Blue Ridge and the
Alleghany mountains, into North Carolina, along the French Broad river,
to the upper part of South Carolina, and into the territory now forming
Tennessee and Kentucky, with a part of the northwest territory, to the
north of the Ohio river, and which then belonged to Virginia, was
largely, and in some sections was entirely, settled by Irish, who did
not change their names before or after leaving Ireland. From the latter
circumstance the course of settlement can be traced by the surnames of
the first settlers, and the indications are rendered all the stronger by
the names of so many settlements which clearly indicate the localities
in Ireland whence these people came.

It can be claimed that some of these Irish emigrants were of English
descent from some period more or less remote. This was doubtless true,
but they became Irish by birth, and were no longer in sympathy with
English interests, or they would not have left the country.
Notwithstanding the severe penalties, which were so long in operation,
for “taking up with the Irishy,” the fate of many of the invaders was
the same after each invasion. In time they yielded to the charms of the
Irish women, and their progeny became often more Irish than those from
the original Celtic stock. The descendants of many a Cromwellian soldier
can be found in Ireland and abroad, who are to-day bitter and
uncompromising foes to England’s rule in Ireland, and are a potent check
to her influence elsewhere.

I have found reported among the debates in the Irish Parliament, a
speech by the Hon. Luke Gardiner, delivered April 2d, 1784, on Irish
Commerce, and from which I quote: “America was lost by Irish emigrants.
These emigrations are fresh in the recollection of every gentleman in
this house. I am assured, from the best authority, the major part of the
American army was composed of Irish, and that the Irish language was as
commonly spoken in the American ranks as English. I am also informed it
was their valor determined the contest, so that England had America
detached from her by force of Irish emigrants, etc.”

I find in Marmion’s work, “The Ancient and Modern History of the
Maritime Ports of Ireland,” some interesting facts bearing upon a
portion of the exodus to this country.

In 1771, 1772, and 1773, over twenty-five thousand emigrants left
Belfast, and other ports in that immediate neighborhood, for the
American colonies, in consequence of having been evicted from one of the
estates of the Marquis of Donegal, in Antrim.

Marmion states, “The emigrants were chiefly farmers and manufacturers
who, it was calculated, by converting their property into specie, which
they took with them abroad, deprived Ulster of one fourth of its
circulating medium, which then consisted altogether of specie; and also
a portion equal thereto to the most valuable part of its population.”

Could Robert Morris, the financier of the Revolution, enlighten us as to
the effect from bringing this amount of specie into the country, we
would realize that the benefit was an incalculable one, and it is a
matter of surprise that writers of our history have not noted so
important a circumstance.

What credit we had in this country after the paper money had
depreciated, was based upon this specie throughout the greater part of
the Revolution. Among many instances to this purpose was its use in
moving the army to Virginia with such expedition as to ensure the
capture of Cornwallis, which event contributed more to the termination
of the war than any other; and without the credit based on this specie
the struggle would have terminated long before the alliance was made
with France.

The Irish people throughout this country were with few exceptions in
sympathy with the cause of the colonies, and immediately after the
battle of Bunker Hill thousands among them entered the army, but
particularly such was the case with these emigrants from the north of
Ireland, who, from their continuous service and discipline, became a
mainstay of the organization until the end of the war. These Irishmen,
who had settled in Pennsylvania, turned out chiefly under the command of
Col. Edward Hand and Col. William Irving. They were both Irishmen, and
had served as surgeons in the British service, the first in the army and
the latter in the navy.

Hand was certainly of Catholic parents from the north of Ireland, and
his command, composed largely of Presbyterians, joined the army before
Boston shortly after Washington took command. But the arrival of Hand’s
troops, it is claimed, had been preceded a few days by a body of
Catholic Irishmen from Maryland and lower Pennsylvania, under the
command of Col. Stephen Moylan, who was a personal friend of Washington,
an aide on his staff, and an active officer throughout the war. Moylan
was a brother of the Catholic bishop of Cork, Ireland, who was a devoted
friend to the American cause.

Joseph Galloway, a native of Maryland, but long a resident of
Pennsylvania before the Revolution, was one of the best informed men in
the colonies, and probably, with the exception of Franklin, had no equal
as to his accurate knowledge relating to the general condition of
affairs in the country. He was an early and active sympathizer in the
American cause until the Declaration of Independence, when he became a
Loyalist. During a visit to England he was examined in June, 1779,
before an investigating committee of the House of Commons, and his
testimony has been frequently published. When asked as to the
composition of the Rebel army—his answer was—“The names and places of
their nativity being taken down I can answer the question with
precision,—there were scarcely one fourth natives of America; about one
half Irish,—the other fourth were English and Scotch.” He might have
stated more in detail, that the fourth part was composed of some
English, very few Scotch, and more Germans, or Dutch, as they were
called, from Pennsylvania and the valley of Virginia, who formed the
brigade under the command of Muhlenberg, and the Eighth Virginia
regiment.

Galloway’s testimony was in relation to his experience while
superintendent of the police in Philadelphia during the British
occupancy. It is but just to state that to a subsequent question, “Do
you know anything of the army of the Rebels in general, how that is
composed—of what country people?” His answer was, “I judge of that by
the deserters that came over.” Had we no other testimony to corroborate
Galloway’s first statement it would be to the discredit of the Irish,
but taken as a whole it is shown that no larger proportion of them
deserted than of any other nationality; and if the proportion of native
born from Irish parents could be ascertained, the number of deserters
among those of Irish blood would be shown to have been less than any
other.

I have estimated that about one fourth of all the American officers were
Irish by birth or descent.

A large number of Irish were in the Continental Congress or prominent as
leaders in every station of life. I may mention that even Washington was
possibly descended on his father’s side from a Washington who had lived
in Ireland, and his mother’s family, the Balls, beyond doubt came from
the neighborhood of Dublin. Walford in his “Country Families of the
United Kingdom” shows that at the present time the only families with
any property bearing the name of Ball, are to be found in Ireland. The
family, it is stated, came to Ireland in the Fourteenth century as
Flemish emigrants. The De Wessyngtons, it is also claimed, were Flemish,
who settled about the same time in both England and Ireland. But the
head of the English family, it seems, died some years before the
planting of Jamestown, Va. The members of the Irish branch[3] have all
been traced and some of them to this country. One, a son of Henry
Washington, who was a prominent man, disappeared from Ireland during the
troubles I have described. He probably escaped to Bermuda, where many
vessels first stopped on their way to the American colonies.

During a visit to Bermuda in 1852, I had occasion to examine some of the
early church records. I there saw several references made in the minutes
of the Vestry meetings to one Washington, “a sojourner,” who was several
times fined for not conforming by attending the service of the
Established church. He seemed to have proved incorrigible as he was
finally ordered “to go his way.” He probably did so to Virginia, from
the known fact that his father had been a friend of Lord Baltimore, and
others who were connected with the Virginia settlements.

The Irish Presbyterians and Catholics were in full sympathy with this
country during the Revolution, while in Ireland or elsewhere there were
very few Scotch who favored the American cause. A noted exception to the
rule was John Witherspoon, a signer of the Declaration of Independence
from New Jersey, who was a devoted patriot. The only large settlement of
Scotch in the colonies was formed in North Carolina by the British
government, after the battle of Culloden, by transplanting the
Highlanders. Among them was Flora McDonald, whose husband, with every
other man in the settlement, espoused the English cause and fought
against the Americans.

It is full time that we divest ourselves of English influence in this
country. Until this be done we will remain in ignorance of the truth
relating to a large portion of our history, which has yet to be written
in strict accord with the facts.

[Illustration:

  HON. MORGAN J. O’BRIEN,
  A Justice of the New York Supreme Court.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. JOHN CRANE,
  NEW YORK CITY.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. STEPHEN J. GEOGHEGAN,
  NEW YORK CITY.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. JOSEPH FORSYTH SWORDS,
  NEW YORK CITY.
]

                 FOUR MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.




                    SOME PRE-REVOLUTIONARY IRISHMEN.

                BY HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN, CONCORD, N. H.


Two hundred and fifty years ago, the Five Nations, better known later as
the Six Nations, was the most powerful confederacy of Indians in North
America. The governor of the province of New York, in a communication to
the committee of trade dated February 22, 1687, said, “The Five Nations
are the most warlike people in America. They go as far as the South sea,
the Northwest passage, and Florida to war. They are so considerable that
all the Indians in these parts of America are tributary to them.” To
gain the friendship of these people, was the constant aim of the French
in Canada, and the English in New York and New England.

The latter at the outset had an advantage from the fact, well-known,
that the former under Champlain, had antagonized the confederacy, by
forming an alliance with the Hurons whom it had not, up to that time,
subjected to its rule. This advantage, however, there is good reason to
believe, would not have inured to the benefit of the English, were it
not for the influence of two men of Irish blood, who by their tact,
discretion, and humanity, secured the alliance of the Six Nations for
the British government. The union thus created was of the greatest
possible benefit to the English colonies, and existed until the power of
the confederacy was destroyed forever, and the Indians themselves,
connected with it, almost swept from the face of the earth.

This deed was performed by troops under the command of another man of
Irish blood, who is credited with being the first in the English
colonies to commit an overt act against the British government by
leading a body of armed men against the Royal troops at Newcastle, N.
H., on Dec. 14, 1774. Thus will the names of three men, Thomas Dongan,
William Johnson, and John Sullivan, be forever inseparably connected
with the annals of the Six Nations, and the records of the province and
state of New York.

The ferocity, the cruelty, and the barbarism of the Indians comprising
the Six Nations, are described at length on the pages of the various
works written by Francis Parkman. Their very name terrorized the other
Indian tribes, almost from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the Mississippi,
and in their efforts to dominate all others, they devastated the entire
country. It was not, therefore, surprising that their enmity was feared,
and their friendship sought. After the conquest of New York, and during
the dominion of the three first governors appointed by the English
government, no effort had been made to secure the latter.

The appointment, however, by James II, of Col. Thomas Dongan, placed at
the head of affairs in New York a man of distinguished character as a
soldier, and, as events subsequently proved, possessed of abilities in
civil affairs that entitle him to the rank of a statesman. He was a
native of Ireland, a Catholic in religion, and had been, through weal
and woe, a stanch adherent of his royal master. He had seen service in
the French army, and in both Britain and France was looked upon as a
brave and skilful officer.

He was commissioned governor on Sept. 30, 1682. Under his administration
the first legislative assembly met in the colony and under it a law was
enacted granting religious toleration to the members of all Christian
churches. He had not been long in his new position before he realized
the importance of securing for his government the good will of the Five
Nations. It goes without saying that, in their intercourse with the
American Indians, the French, for one reason or another, had been able
to get along with them better than did the English, and up to the time
of Colonel Dongan’s arrival, they were doing all in their power to
secure an alliance with the Indians whose prowess they feared as well as
respected. He saw that action, immediate action, was necessary to
counteract the influence being exercised by the French.

One of the first steps taken by him was to oblige the Jesuit
missionaries who were among them to return to Canada; thus proving that
his religion was no obstacle in the way of loyalty to his government.
For this, and for other similar acts, he was complained of by the
Canadian authorities, who wrote at length to the king of France, who in
turn complained to the king of England in relation to the matter.

This did not deter Dongan, however, and during his entire
administration, extending over a period of nearly six years, he labored
incessantly to effect a union between his government and the Indians,
which, through his tact, and his good judgment, was finally effected to
his satisfaction before his departure. No man of British birth or of the
Protestant religion, labored more diligently, zealously, or successfully
for his government, than did this Irish-born Catholic. His address to
the Indian Nations in City hall, Albany, on Aug. 5, 1687, near the close
of his administration, as published in the documentary history of New
York, is most interesting reading, as well as a good illustration of the
condition of affairs then existing between the French and the English
nations on this continent.

Dongan was so fair, honorable, and equitable in his dealings with all
men, that, to this day, none of New York’s rulers, before or since the
Revolution, stands higher with historical writers. An unpublished life
of him, written more than seventy-five years ago, by ex-Governor Plumer,
of New Hampshire, is now in possession of the New Hampshire Historical
Society. During Dongan’s term as governor, all the New England governors
looked to him for counsel and advice. It was not uncommon in those days
to appeal to him to send the Mohawks to their aid in repelling the
attacks of the French and Indians. It can safely be said that from the
settlement of New Amsterdam down to the day of his departure, no one man
had done more than he in shaping the course of events which ultimately
led to the success of the English government, and the final
establishment, in consequence, of the republic. It is not too much to
say that, had the French been successful thus early in securing the
coöperation of the Indians mentioned, the result to the English colonies
would be easy to conjecture.

From 1688 to 1746 it is safe to say that the colony of New York
contained no man who can be considered equal to Dongan in the capacity
of either a soldier or a statesman. In the latter year, however, a young
man arrived in America, commissioned by the royal government as
“colonial agent and sole superintendent of all the affairs of the Six
Nations and other Northern Indians,” who became in time his legitimate
successor. For nearly thirty years he was the greatest power in New
York, and his reputation extended far beyond its borders.

His name was William Johnson. He was the son of Christopher Johnson, of
Smithtown, County Meath, Ireland, who was descended from a distinguished
Irish family. His mother was Anne Warren, daughter of Michael Warren, of
the same county, and sister of Admiral Sir Peter Warren, who was second
in command, under Admiral Lord Boscawen, at the reduction of Louisburg,
Cape Breton. Christopher Johnson was the son of William McShane,
afterwards anglicized to Johnson, and of Anne Fitzsimmons, of Westmeath,
Ireland.

William McShane was the son of Thomas McShane, and Thomas McShane was
the son of John O’Neill, who was a descendant of the O’Neills of Ulster.
Four steps backward, consequently, places William Johnson where he
properly belongs as a descendant of one of the greatest of the Northern
Gaelic clans. The Warrens, from whom his mother was descended, came to
Ireland in 1170. This record is taken from the order book of Sir John
Johnson, the son of William, and a major-general in the British army
during the Revolution.

William Johnson was adopted by his uncle Admiral Warren, and accompanied
him to America in 1746, or thereabouts. From the first he took an active
part in the affairs of the province and it was not long before his
reputation extended beyond it. His services were duly recognized by the
home government and a baronetcy was the expression of its satisfaction
with his management of the affairs committed to his charge.

His power over the Indians of the Six Nations was unbounded. The union
effected by Dongan was strengthened and perfected by him. In the various
conflicts occurring from his arrival in New York, until the final
downfall of the French power in Canada, he was looked up to as a leader
by all the eastern provincials. He was commander-in-chief of the forces
engaged in the expedition against Crown Point, to which soldiers were
furnished by the four New England colonies and New York.

In consequence, his form and features became familiar to Rogers, Stark,
and others from New Hampshire, who were with him at Lake George and Fort
William Henry. Of him it was said at this period by a well known
historical writer, that “he was perhaps the most prominent man in the
province of New York, during the decade that preceded the Declaration of
Independence.”

The sturdy Knickerbocker, Peter Van Shaak, in alluding to him, said, on
July 24, 1774, “I own I consider him as the greatest character of the
age.”

Another writer said of him, “Coming to America at the age of
twenty-three, although of good birth and family, he set out to make his
own fortunes, and plunged into the forests. He opened a store, bought
furs, and traded with the natives. He won their admiration, for he was
athletic, brave and true-hearted. He won their confidence, for he always
told the truth, and treated them with justice. He was made
superintendent of Indian affairs, but he never took advantage of his
place to rob his wards.

“He was made a baronet, but he never forgot his humble friends. For
nearly thirty years he stood up as the advocate of the Six Nations,
compelling a recognition of their rights. The struggle often was severe,
for he encountered every obstacle that the greed or avarice of the
whites could suggest, but he triumphed, enforced good faith towards the
red men, and retained their friendship.”

The correspondence between Sir William and the governors of the New
England colonies, in those trying times, takes up considerable space in
the Provincial records. In considering the present condition of New
York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island and New Hampshire, so far
as population and resources are concerned, it cannot but be of interest
to make a comparison with the situation then. On the authority of
Theodore Atkinson, provincial secretary of New Hampshire, in the spring
of 1755, that province fitted out a regiment of 500 men for the Crown
Point expedition and had them in the woods fully two months before the
other provinces had their men on the Hudson river.

In addition, the province supplied its own troops with rations during
that period. Colonel Blanchard of this regiment was post-commander at
Fort Edward. The New York regiment was also under his command. Colonel
Blanchard’s regiment experienced hard service, and acquitted itself
creditably. Sir William wrote Governor Wentworth, Nov. 4, 1755, and
said: “The activity and usefulness of Colonel Blanchard’s regiment would
prejudice me in favor of any other from your province.” In September of
the same year a second regiment, numbering 300 men, was raised and
placed under command of Colonel Gilman.

In the formation of this expedition the following apportionments were
made for the colonies named: Massachusetts, 1,200; Connecticut, 1,000;
New York, 800; Rhode Island, 500; New Hampshire, 600.

To this division, so far as the provinces of New Hampshire and
Massachusetts were concerned, the New Hampshire officials objected.
Their proportion as a rule being one hundred, to Massachusetts, 1,000.
They were informed in reply that Massachusetts had raised four
regiments, respectively, for Governor Shirley, Sir William Pepperell,
and two for the Nova Scotia campaign, and in justice, this fact ought to
be taken into consideration.

New Hampshire retorted in turn, that, while willing to give
Massachusetts credit for raising the four regiments named, their
province furnished more than half of the men; a circumstance similar to
that which occurred twenty years later at Bunker Hill, where New
Hampshire furnished more than one half of the men, and Massachusetts
took nearly all the honor. A compromise was effected by reducing the
number from 600 to 500. It can be seen from this that the provinces of
New York and New Hampshire were in close touch in those early days, and
the record made in the Civil War by the descendants of the men who
fought at Fort Edward and Fort William Henry, was fully equal to that
made by their ancestors, as testified to by Sir William Johnson. To the
white settlers around him, he was always a kind friend as well as a wise
counselor.

To his subordinates, he was a generous and liberal superior. When
appointed to take command of the expedition in question, and while
negotiating with the authorities of New Hampshire and Massachusetts for
the appointment of white officers for the Indian troops, he insisted
that as the service would be very severe, they must receive the same
compensation as the officers in the regular service, and required what
he called “solid satisfaction” instead of a verbal agreement as a
guarantee for the payment of the same. He was surrounded on his estate
by many of his own countrymen, and lived in the same style, so far as it
could be done, as those of his rank did in Ireland. It is fair to
presume that the Gaelic tongue was not unknown in his family, for one of
his daughters was alluded to as “Sheilia,” and Sir Guy Johnson, his
nephew and successor, was credited with being the possessor of a
“genuine rich Irish brogue.”

His son John succeeded to his estate and title. As in the case of
Colonel Dongan, Great Britain did not possess on the American continent
a more loyal or devoted subject or a more faithful officer than it had
in Sir William Johnson, and both, as the records show, in blood were
Irish of the Irish. It was not his fortune to live when the struggle
began between the colonies and Great Britain for he died on June 24,
1774.

On Dec. 14, 1774, barely six months from the death of Johnson, the first
rumble of the guns of the Revolution was heard. On that date an armed
body of determined men, led by Major John Sullivan and Capt. John
Langdon, stormed Fort William and Mary, at Newcastle, near Portsmouth,
N. H. The garrison was captured, the munitions of war taken, and in
broad daylight, the British flag was hauled down, and, so far as New
Hampshire was concerned, remained down forever. This was the first overt
act against the Royal government in the thirteen colonies. It was four
months before the conflict at Concord and Lexington, and six months
before the battle of Bunker Hill.

The powder captured at Newcastle was put to good use at Bunker Hill, and
many of the men who handled it in both places had served their
apprenticeship as soldiers under Johnson during the various Indian
campaigns. John Sullivan was the grandson of Major Philip O’Sullivan,
one of the defenders of Limerick, who went with his regiment to France
after the surrender. His family was one of the most distinguished in the
south of Ireland. His father was Owen O’Sullivan, who was a teacher in
New Hampshire for over fifty years. He contributed four sons, all of
whom became commissioned officers, to the Continental army. Two of these
later became governors, respectively, of New Hampshire and
Massachusetts. John Sullivan, when the troubles first began, was an
attorney with an established reputation and with a lucrative practice.
On the authority of John Adams, he was worth ten thousand pounds when he
cast his lot with the advocates of independence. He held the commission
of major in one of the Provincial regiments.

He had seen no active service, but possessed a good theoretical military
education from a close study of all available works relating to the art
of war. His ability was recognized by his associates. He was chosen
delegate from his town to the first Provincial congress of New
Hampshire, and was selected by that body to represent his native
province in the first Continental congress which met in Philadelphia in
1774. He was reappointed January 25, 1775. He was the first person
chosen to represent New Hampshire in Congress, and his name heads the
first roll of delegates to that body. He was one of the eight
brigadier-generals appointed by Congress in 1775, and in less than a
year from the date of his commission was promoted to major-general.

His first appointment came to him for his leadership at Newcastle, and
his promotion for the ability displayed in leading Montgomery’s defeated
army back from Canada, without, it is said, the loss of a man or a gun.
The Royal government recognized his ability as it feared his influence.
Realizing who was to be held responsible for the storming of the fort at
Newcastle, Peter Livius, a Royalist refugee, who had been chief justice
of New Hampshire, wrote him in June, 1777:

“You were the first man in active rebellion, and drew with you the
province you live in. You will be one of the first sacrifices to the
resentment and justice of the government. Your family will be ruined,
and you must die with ignominy.” This was the man to whom Washington
turned for a leader when Congress determined, in 1779, to organize an
expedition for the destruction of the Six Nations. When the Revolution
began the colonial authorities sent delegates to the great council of
the Iroquois, to secure, if possible, their neutrality in the coming
contest. There was good reason to expect it, for the Provincials had
fought with them and for them against the French for years. The
confederacy could muster at this time about 2,000 warriors. The
delegates returned, confident that an arrangement had been effected,
but, as subsequent events proved, any action by the Indians to that end
was revoked, and fully 1,200 of them were secured for the British
service.

It is not necessary, neither was it the intention, to describe here the
events occurring on the frontiers of New York and Pennsylvania during
the years 1777 and 1778. The terrible atrocities perpetrated on the
defenceless settlers by Indians, Tories, British regulars, and refugees,
whose passions were inflamed with hatred against the struggling
patriots, were a disgrace to civilization and a foul blot on the British
government, which sought to crush the Revolution by such horrible
methods. A well-known New York writer, a descendant of some of those who
suffered at Cherry Valley, while describing the massacres by the Indians
said: “But, after all, I blame much more the English monarch who incited
the fiendish warfare, than the red men, who took his gold and fought
after their fashion.”

He could have truthfully added that but twenty years after, similar
deeds were committed without the aid of Indian auxiliaries, by order of
the same government, when it crushed, in Ireland, the rebellion of 1798.

Many of those who then met their death by the bullet or bayonet, or
swung from the gallows, were akin to hundreds who marched and fought
under Sullivan in this campaign. A kinsman of one of them, Francis
McKinley, who suffered death on the scaffold in Ireland at that time, is
now president of the United States. The destruction of the thriving
settlement of Wyoming and Cherry Valley, and the devastation along the
banks of the Susquehanna, finally brought Congress to a realization of
the situation.

That body adopted a resolution on February 27, 1779, authorizing General
Washington to take the most effective measures for protecting the people
and punishing the Indians, who were allies of the British. The
commander-in-chief made no delay. An expedition consisting of four
brigades, made up of some of the best troops in the Continental Army,
was organized. Their composition was as follows: First Brigade,
Brig.-Gen. William Maxwell, four regiments from New Jersey; Second
Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Enoch Poor, three New Hampshire and one
Massachusetts regiments. Third Brigade, Brig.-Gen. Edward Hand, three
Pennsylvania regiments, a German battalion, three independent companies,
and a battalion of Morgan’s riflemen. Fourth Brigade, Brig.-Gen. James
Clinton, four New York regiments and a section of artillery.

The command of the expedition was first offered to General Gates, the
hero of Saratoga, as a matter of courtesy, with the request, in case he
did not desire to assume command, to turn it over to General Sullivan.
The expected happened; it was refused, and the army was placed under
Sullivan’s leadership. Washington’s instructions were, in short, to
devastate, and, if possible, destroy the Indian settlements totally, and
to capture as many persons as possible. Sullivan had no easy task before
him. Difficulties, which are needless to mention here, beset him on all
sides. Some of the troops were discontented, almost to the point of
mutiny, on account of the worthless character of the Continental paper
money paid them; and delays in furnishing supplies were not among the
least annoyances of the situation.

Sullivan’s energetic disposition and tireless efforts, aided largely by
Washington’s sympathetic encouragement, finally overcame all obstacles,
and on June 14, 1779, his command had reached Wyoming. It is not
necessary to describe in detail this campaign, for it is too well known.

Washington’s instructions were carried out to the letter. The powerful
confederacy of the Indians, for more than a century the terror of the
country and the peaceful settlers, was completely destroyed; their
villages, orchards, and cornfields were devastated beyond reparation,
and the greater part of themselves, not killed or captured, driven
forever beyond the Canadian border. No repetitions of Wyoming and Cherry
Valley were possible thereafter. For his conduct of the campaign,
Sullivan was severely criticised. The destruction of property was cruel
and needless, it was said, and the treatment of the Indians not in
harmony with civilized warfare.

To these strictures no reply was made. Sullivan heard them in silence,
and through life bore them uncomplainingly. He had obeyed the orders
given him by General Washington, and time has done him justice. The
great state of New York has ever held his name in grateful remembrance.
It is borne by one of its counties. Nearly twenty years ago the people
dwelling in the valleys through which marched his victorious troops,
assembled at Newtown, Waterloo, Geneseo, and Aurora, to celebrate the
first centennial of the campaign, which opened up the fertile lands of
Central New York to the victors in the War of Independence.

The principal celebration was at Newtown. Among the participants were
the governors of New York, Pennsylvania, and New Hampshire, the
provinces furnishing full three quarters of Sullivan’s soldiers; and
Gen. William T. Sherman, then commander of the United States Army. In
his address, he said: “Washington gave General Sullivan orders to come
here and punish the Six Nations for their cruel massacre in the Valley
of the Wyoming, and to make it so severe that it would not occur again,
and he did so. General Sullivan obeyed his orders like a man and like a
soldier.”

As a recognition of what had been done, Sullivan and his troops received
the thanks of Congress, and were complimented in General Orders by
Washington. At the conclusion of his military service, John Sullivan
returned to his native state, where he lived to the hour of his death,
honored and respected by those who knew him best. He was its third
governor, its first United States judge, appointed by Washington, and
the organizer, and for a time commander, of the state militia.

He was attorney-general of his state for years, and was succeeded later
in the same position by his son and grandson. His great great grandson,
Captain John Sullivan, was an officer in the Thirteenth N. H. Regiment
in the Civil War. From the entrenchments round Boston in the winter of
1775 he wrote to the Committee of Safety of New Hampshire, in response
to its request, giving his opinion of the kind of a government we ought
to have for he was in favor of separation from the outset. On the line
of his suggestions was drafted the State Constitution of 1776, which was
the first to be adopted by any of the thirteen colonies, and this at a
time when the minds of many, prominent in public affairs, were wavering
on the question of independence. There was no intention to give, in this
paper, any account in detail of the great events occurring between 1682
and 1779, save what is necessary to bring out as clearly as possible the
characters and the deeds of a few men of Irish blood who aided largely
in furnishing material for making American history, and as well to give
the country which produced them the credit to which it is justly
entitled.

The credit due Ireland for them, as well as for many others who have
distinguished themselves here in years gone by, has not always been
given. Our duty, as members of the American-Irish Historical Society,
will be to right this great wrong and never cease our efforts until the
errors of latter day historians, so far as they relate to the Irish in
America, are corrected. This expedition against the Six Nations is in
itself a great illustration of the prominent part taken by men of Irish
birth or parentage in the War for Independence and the establishment of
the Republic. Of the five generals holding command, the leader,
Major-General John Sullivan, and Brigade-Commander James Clinton were
born here of Irish parentage. Two of the other three, namely: General
Edward Hand and General Wm. Maxwell, were born in Ireland. The fifth,
General Enoch Poor, was a native of New Hampshire.

That there were many of Irish blood in the ranks with muskets on their
shoulders, the rosters of each regiment will doubtless show. Among them
was Timothy Murphy, who was one of the few of Lieutenant Boyd’s scouting
party escaping capture by the Indians. He was styled by Colonel Hubbley,
commander of one of the Pennsylvania regiments, in his diary, as a noted
marksman and a great soldier. On his authority Murphy killed, during the
campaign, thirty-three Indians. His name is, in consequence, a household
word in Pennsylvania and New York. Among those of Boyd’s party killed or
tortured to death were Lieut. Thomas Boyd, Corp. Michael Parker, John
Conroy, William Faughey, James McElroy, Benjamin Curtin and Corporal
Calahawn. Col. Thomas Proctor, who commanded the Pennsylvania artillery
regiment, and Col. William Butler, of the same brigade, were both born
in Ireland.

As a native of Ireland I am proud of the record here spread forth of the
deeds of Irishmen and the sons of Irishmen; and as an adopted son of New
Hampshire, I glory in the spirit of independence displayed by the people
of that state from the very first, and believe that it is largely due to
the liberal strain of Irish blood running in the veins of her sons. Her
men were with Johnson at Crown Point, as they were with Stark at Bunker
Hill, and Sullivan at Newtown. They never failed to go where duty
called, and their service in the Civil War showed no degeneration, for
the official records of the Union and Confederate armies give the Fifth
New Hampshire credit for losing more men in action than any other
infantry regiment in the Union army. Territorially, as well as in
population, she does not cut a large figure to-day, but less than a
century and a half ago, she sent as many men to Crown Point as the
province of New York, and contributed nearly one quarter of the troops
for Sullivan’s expedition, besides furnishing its commander.

She contributed more than her quota of men to the Continental army, one
hundred thousand dollars more than her proportion of money, and
possessed within her borders fewer Tories than did any one of the
original thirteen colonies. It has often and truthfully been said, “New
Hampshire is a good state to hail from.” She gave you here in New York
one of your most distinguished governors, Gen. John A. Dix, who, when
the shadow of secession hung like a cloud all over the country, penned
the memorable sentence, “If any man attempts to haul down the American
flag, shoot him on the spot.” She sent to Massachusetts the only man,
Gen. Benjamin F. Butler, who dared to execute the order; only he thought
shooting too honorable and hanged the man Mumford, who dared to disobey
it. The record of her sons for bravery and honorable service has been
second to none. One of her regimental commanders, Henry Dearborn, who
was with Sullivan in his campaign, became afterwards commander-in-chief
of the United States army. Another, Maj.-Gen. John G. Foster, was one of
the defenders of Sumter, and a gallant soldier of the Civil War. Still
another was Maj.-Gen. Fitz John Porter, who, like General Dix, became a
resident of New York. The _Kearsarge_, built of New Hampshire timber and
manned mainly by New Hampshire tars, met the _Alabama_, and under the
direction of executive officer Capt. James S. Thornton, the grandson of
New Hampshire’s Irish-born signer of the Declaration of Independence, in
a fair, open fight, sent the British-built and British-armed privateer
to the bottom of the ocean.

In civil affairs, also, her sons have distinguished themselves. She sent
to Massachusetts, Henry Wilson; to Maine, William Pitt Fessenden; to
Iowa, James W. Grimes; to Michigan, Zachariah Chandler; and to Ohio,
Salmon P. Chase. The latter was secretary of the treasury, and the
others chairmen, respectively, during the Civil War, of the senate
committees on military affairs, on finance and appropriations, on
District of Columbia, and on committee on commerce. To represent herself
during the same period, she sent to the United States senate John P.
Hale and Daniel Clark. The former was chairman of the committee on naval
affairs, the latter chairman of the committee on claims.

She contributed to New York, in addition to those named, Horace Greeley
and Charles A. Dana. Of those here mentioned, John P. Hale, Daniel
Clark, James W. Grimes and Horace Greeley were of Irish descent. Hale
was the son of Mary O’Brien. Her father was Wm. O’Brien, the younger of
the historic O’Brien brothers of Maine. While acting as second in
command under his brother, Capt. John O’Brien, on the Hibernia ship of
war during the Revolution, he was mortally wounded in an engagement with
an English vessel, and died of his wounds at the age of twenty-two.

The reader of history to-day, if conversant with the events occurring in
British and French America from the first settlement down to the
outbreak of the Revolution, can see the wisdom of securing the
friendship of the Six Nations. For a century they stood as a bulwark
between the English and their northern rivals. Without their aid and
with their enmity the former could not have prospered as they had; and,
as a consequence, would not have been in condition to resist the unjust
exactions of the home government. For this reason the names of Colonel
Thomas Dongan and of Sir William Johnson ought to be held forever in
remembrance in New York and in New England for what they had done in
bringing this about. The ways of Providence are mysterious, and to
mortals often beyond comprehension.

This powerful confederacy, for so many years the terror of the French,
as it was the hope of the English settlements, outlived its usefulness;
and its downfall was finally brought about by the men or the children of
the men with whom it had been for so many years in alliance. As in the
first instance, the union between it and the English had been effected
mainly through the influence of two men of Irish birth, so in the end it
was broken forever by an army led by a man of Irish parentage.

If these conclusions are correct, Thomas Dongan, Wm. Johnson O’Neill,
and John Sullivan ought to be assigned honorable positions among the
pioneers and builders of the United States of America.

[Illustration:

  MR. JAMES F. BRENNAN,
  Of New Hampshire, State Library Commissioner.
  Residence, PETERBOROUGH.
]

[Illustration:

  JOHN D. HANRAHAN, M. D.,
  Of Vermont, Ex-President Rutland County Medical and Surgical Society.
  Residence, RUTLAND.
]

[Illustration:

  JOHN F. HAYES, M. D.,
  Of Connecticut, Member Waterbury Board of Education.
  Residence, WATERBURY.
]

[Illustration:

  WILLIAM A. M. MACK, M. D.,
  Of New Jersey.
  Mayor of ELIZABETH, N. J.
]

               FOUR STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY.




 THE IRISH ELEMENT IN THE SECOND MASSACHUSETTS VOLUNTEERS IN THE RECENT
                           WAR (WITH SPAIN).

             BY REV. JOHN J. McCOY, P. R., CHICOPEE, MASS.

 “What have ye brought to our Nation-building, Sons of the Gael?
 What is your burden or guerdon from old Innisfail?
 Here build we higher and deeper than men ever built before;
 And we raise no Shinar tower, but a temple forevermore.”
                                                 —_John Boyle O’Reilly._


Just after the Parnell investigation in 1885, when the Irish
Parliamentary party came out of the fires of ill will and fraud, and was
crowned with the world’s credit, John Boyle O’Reilly said to a priest
friend of mine, the Rev. Dr. O’Callaghan of Boston, “Father Denis, in
the clubs of Boston to-night it is a glory to be an Irishman.”

What the hot-hearted O’Reilly said that happy night of exclusive and
scholarly Boston may as truthfully be said now of the whole state from
the Cape to the Berkshires. Men who most love the Bay state’s white
flag, with its protecting shield and uplifted arm, are saying it is a
glory in Massachusetts to-night to be an Irishman or an Irishman’s son;
and they find their reason for this in the heroic showing of her citizen
soldiers, who went out from a people that had not enervated under more
than thirty years of softening peace, right into the zone of flame and
blood at El Caney, San Juan, and Santiago, and bore themselves so
gallantly there, and in the other fact that more than every second man
in the Massachusetts contingent had the heart within him warmed by the
red blood of the fighting Gael.

The Ninth Massachusetts Volunteers, though not entirely as is usually
supposed of Irish blood, is yet so nearly so, that at home our people
commonly speak of the splendid command, as “the Irish Ninth;” while the
Second, which has won imperishable renown in Cuba, and has awakened the
honest pride of every patriotic heart at home, in the valley of the
Connecticut, upon the Berkshire hills, and along the quiet Quinsigamond,
is spoken of by press and people as the ideal Massachusetts regiment,
and as made up from the best blood of liberty-loving New England. This
is true; and it is the best blood because most of it is Irish blood.
Many men appear to think that a man to be of Irish stock must be an
O’Sullivan, an O’Brien, a McCarthy or an O’Neill.

Five young men of my near neighborhood went to the war. Their names were
Tobin, Nesbett, McCullough, Braziel and Judd. Three, Tobin, Braziel and
Judd, were of Irish parents, but American born, and a few months before
were boys in my parish school. The two others, McCullough and Nesbitt,
were Protestant boys born in Ireland. Only one of the names would
ordinarily be recognized as Irish. Thinking that what was true in this
case might be in others, and that many of the men of the regiment might
be of Irish blood, I sought for the facts, believing that the facts when
known would make for the credit of our people. I sought the rosters of
the companies, and asked the officers to mark the names of men of Irish
blood, and from this excellent source have I the word which I say
to-night.

In answer to a letter sent to the captains of companies, I received
replies giving me the following figures:

Company A has 11, known to be of Irish blood, and then such names as
Allison, Fay, Cardin and Young have not been counted in.

Company B has 33 men of Irish blood, and does not count Devine or Young.
Company C has 9 men. Company D has 14 men. Company E has 6, and still we
find such names as Doane, Leonard and Blake outside the count. Company F
has 14 men.

Company G has 40 Irish Catholics, 2 Irish Protestants, 2 Italians, 3
Germans, 3 Scots, 2 Swedes, 1 Nova Scotian, 7 French-Canadians, and 17
of old Yankee stock.

Company H has 13 men. Company I, 24 officers and men. Company K has 12,
and still we are not counting such names as Verrily, Kelley, Carr and
Crehy.

Company L has 13, and outside of that we find Barnes, Carney, Kingston,
Norton and Raymond.

Company M has 22, and beyond that 22 there is a Simmons, a Carey,
Daniels, Graham, Manning, Riley and Ward—all good old Irish names.

The count I have given you is in most cases that of the captains of
companies, as far as received, and is as close as hasty work can hope to
be. I am satisfied that with more time and kindly aid of officers and
men, I shall be able to make the roll exact and the number of men of
Irish stock much increased.

We may note, too, that our count to-night is only of men Irish born or
in the first American generation. Many of the best in the regiment have
it farther back, as for instance the gallant colonel himself, who writes
me, “My great-grandfather was Patrick Clark who came from Ireland.”

In the regiment was a young second lieutenant, whom the correspondents
praised and the artists pictured, and who drew the eyes of Massachusetts
to himself by his cool bravery and marvelous skill as a sharpshooter
which he used in silencing the murderous Spaniards who fired from the
trees at our wounded. A Spanish mauser ploughed through his shoulder,
but he is alive and well, and to-day the gentlest and most unspoiled
hero of the war is Lieut. Daniel Moynihan of Northampton.

“I myself am of Irish blood, and Second Lieut. Thomas F. Burke is of
Irish blood also,” writes the city marshal of Springfield, Henry
McDonald, who was captain of Company B.

Of Irish blood, too, is the captain of Company G, who was acting major
in the dangerous time, John J. Leonard. So, too, is his soldierly and
capable first lieutenant, William G. Hayes. So, too, the second
lieutenant, Edward J. Leyden, and Sergeants Scully, Ward, Murphy and
Gibbons.

After a long and intimate knowledge of the regiment, and a closer
acquaintance with its _personnel_ than any other man could possess just
now, its colonel, who is high sheriff of Hampden county and known for
his conservativeness and thoughtfulness of speech, thus gives me his
estimate, and writes it over his own hand: “If we go back for two
generations, I think from one half to three fourths of the members of
the Second Massachusetts Volunteers were of Irish blood.”

This regiment had in the war the gratuitous services of a chaplain whose
name is a benediction to-day in the Connecticut valley, Father
Fitzgerald, chaplain of the Twenty-second Infantry, U. S. A. He is an
Irishman born, and may fittingly be spoken of in this connection, and
the world will honor us as well as him. Every man of the regiment,
Catholic and Protestant alike, loves him, and can scarcely meet a priest
to-day without claiming kindly right to speak of him. The gist of the
general love is in the words of an enthusiastic captain, who writes me
in this manner: “The Rev. E. A. Fitzgerald, chaplain Twenty-second
Infantry, U. S. A., was as truly chaplain of the First Brigade, Second
Division of the Fifth Army Corps, comprising the Eighth and
Twenty-second Regular Infantry and the Second Massachusetts Volunteers.”

Chaplain Fitzgerald had the respect of all the officers and men of the
brigade for his earnest devotion to their interests and for his
unflinching courage during the progress of the battles at El Caney and
San Juan, where he confronted danger at every turn and amid shot and
shell attended to the needs of the wounded. He won for himself a name
unequaled in bravery by that of any other chaplain in the Santiago
campaign. While he was not wounded, his clothing showed the effect of
the mausers.

During the time of disease, a horror of war more trying than battle, he
was unceasing in his labors for the sick, going from one end of the
brigade to the other daily, and reeking with sweat during the heat of
the day. His cheerful countenance and kindly disposition in his daily
work brought comfort and true sunshine to many a drooping soldier
irrespective of creed or race. Colonel Clark, Second Massachusetts
Volunteers, says of him: “One of God’s noblemen,” and Adjutant Hall,
Twenty-second Infantry, in speaking of him, said that he was the “salt
of the earth.” The officers and men of the brigade are unstinted in his
praise, and his name will ever be cherished with reverence, respect and
good wishes by his comrades in the Santiago campaign, the rank and file
of the unassuming volunteers of the Second Massachusetts. I am satisfied
that a study of the men who fought on land and on the sea in the war
with Spain, will be highly creditable to our people.

[Illustration:

  MR. JOHN D. O’BRIEN,
  Of Minnesota.
  Residence, ST. PAUL.
]

[Illustration:

  REV. M. C. LENIHAN,
  Of Iowa
  Residence, MARSHALLTOWN.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. EDWARD FITZPATRICK,
  Of Kentucky.
  Staff of the _Louisville Daily Times_.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. MICHAEL GAVIN,
  Of Tennessee.
  Residence, MEMPHIS.
]

                      FOUR STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.




            THE “SCOTCH-IRISH” AND “ANGLO-SAXON” FALLACIES.

                 BY JAMES JEFFREY ROCHE, BOSTON, MASS.


  MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY:

A few weeks ago I attended a performance of Sheridan’s comedy, “The
Rivals,” very ably interpreted by a new company of players.

One of them, an excellent performer, taking the part of Sir Lucius
O’Trigger, interpolated a “gag,” as it is called in theatrical parlance,
to the effect that modesty is a word which has no equivalent in the
Irish language. It was an interpolation to make the unthinking laugh—but
to make the judicious grieve.

For the Irishman is not immodest, not as the word is meant to
imply—impudent. Thackeray, the shrewd judge of character, rather
condemns the Irishman for his national bashfulness.

The Irishman, at home and abroad, has ever been shamefully apologetic
for his race and himself. He, the proudest of mortals, is always
depreciating his nation’s glory before the world.

The most successful of Irish soldiers, as we gauge success, was
Wellington, a man of Irish birth, whose family had lived in Ireland for
three hundred years. Yet, if we may believe biography, he always called
himself an “Englishman.” If he with three hundred years of Irish
ancestry behind him was English, is there, on all this continent, such a
being as an “American,” since not many of us can call ourselves
“natives” by much over one century of heritage?

Quite recently, in Boston, a wise and patriotic Irishman, though not a
Home Ruler, said, in presenting his case before an American audience,
that his family was not exactly “Irish,” since they had been in Ireland
only six hundred years!

And the patriotic poet, Doctor Sigerson, of Dublin, talking with my dear
lamented friend, the late Alfred Williams, himself a descendant of the
great Roger Williams, of Rhode Island, remarked, incidentally, in regard
to a mutual friend, that “there was an old feud between his family and
mine—but we have agreed to forget it.”

The “feud” dated back to the Danish invasion—many centuries ago—when
Doctor Sigerson’s ancestors fought against Brian Boru! I mention this
incident merely to show that it is possible to go back—too far—in the
path of genealogy.

Let us be content with reasonable research. If we can prove that St.
Brendan was the first discoverer of America, and that a seaman named
“Patrick Maguire” was the bow-oar who set the first foot on the strand
of the New World, from the boat of Columbus—what of it? Any clumsy
forger will come forward at once and declare that Brendan was a
“Scotch-Irishman” and Maguire an “Anglo-Saxon,” as their names imply.
For have they not demonstrated, to their own entire satisfaction, that
St. Patrick was not only a Scot, but also a Calvinist—centuries ere
Calvin was born? We can afford to ignore the fables of what is, to us,
comparative antiquity.

The point that I wish to make is this: I concede willingly, and, I may
say, gladly, that the founders of the great Irish-American societies in
America, a century or a century and a half ago, were not all of the
distinctively Irish race whose faith was Catholic; but of their
nationality there was not the shadow of a doubt. They were Irish, and
proud to call themselves such. They were not “Scotch-Irish,” nor
“Anglo-Irish.”

If they belonged, for the most part, to the faith of Grattan and Tone
and Emmet, does any true Irishman love their memory the less therefor?
Not one! In all the history of this, our poor, crime-stained, unhappy
world, there is no nation so free from the sin of persecution for
conscience’s sake as poor, persecuted Catholic Ireland. Our national
saints and martyrs have been Catholic and Protestant. We have never
discriminated against any man because of his religious belief, but,
rather, have been proud of following our leaders who loved Ireland
first.

But we are jealous in claiming our own. We do not want any man to be
called “Scotch-Irish” or “Anglo-Saxon,” because he did not happen to be
of the same faith as Strongbow or Henry the Second, the Catholic
invaders who first overran Ireland.

Emmet is ours as much as O’Connell; Parnell belongs to Ireland as much
as Owen Roe. We do not discriminate between Andrew Jackson and Phil
Sheridan when we glory in the deeds of Irish-Americans.

We have only one living thought at present. Our faces are set against
any alliance with the hereditary enemy of Ireland and of America. That
feeling is not Irish alone; it is American. It is born of experience. On
our part, seven hundred years old. On the part of America, over one
hundred years old. But is not the experience of one century as valuable
as that of seven when we have to deal with real things? It ought to be
more valuable, even as the injury of yesterday is more stinging than one
of seven years ago.

The danger of an Anglo-American alliance is imminent. Its effect on
Ireland is comparatively trivial. Its effect on America is immeasurably
disastrous. By it we should forfeit the friendship of France, whose men
and money made our freedom possible, and of Russia, whose timely aid
saved us from disintegration during the Civil War. “Republics are
ungrateful,” says the old adage. _This_ republic must prove, at least,
one exception to the rule, if it be a rule.

The American, and especially the Irish-American, who would favor an
alliance with England, would be unworthy of Heaven, unwelcome in
Purgatory, and lonesome in Perdition.




                            THE IRISH NAME.


John Jerome Rooney, of New York, read the following beautiful and
stirring poem:

             Who fears to claim the Irish name?
                 Who will forswear his blood?
             Who holds in shame the deeds and fame
                 Of Emmet, Grattan, Flood?
             Their hearts held true through death and rue,
                 Through death and sore disgrace,
             Then who’ll forget the boundless debt
                 We owe our Irish race?

             Ere Learning’s sun had found the road
                 Above the Eastern hill,
             Her lamp of art and wisdom glowed
                 By Irish lake and rill;
             To Scotia’s crags it flashed a ray,
                 And Albion spoke reply;
             From tower and shrine it beamed benign,
                 A beacon in the sky!

             Where’er the rights of man were pressed
                 Beneath the heel of wrong—
             Where’er, from utmost East to West,
                 The helpless sought the strong—
             There—there the son of Erin found
                 His soul’s appointed place—
             When Freedom calls, oh, what appals
                 The dauntless Irish race.

             Within the mighty woods of Maine
                 You hear their cheery word;
             Upon the boundless Texan plain
                 They drive their thundering herd;
             They smite the veins of golden ore,
                 They gird the earth with plans—
             But first and most (their proudest boast),
                 _They’re true Americans!_

             Then, who would shame the Irish name
                 By one ignoble deed?
             He—he alone we will not own
                 Who would belie his seed!
             We claim our line—your blood and mine—
                 From out a sacred sod.
             Then, hand in hand, we’ll take our stand—
                 _True to ourselves and God!_




                        THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY.

                   BY THOMAS J. GARGAN, BOSTON, MASS.


The new president-general of the Society, Thomas J. Gargan, said:

GENTLEMEN:-We may congratulate ourselves on the progress which this
Society has made during the two years of its existence. On Jan. 20,
1897, in response to a call, signed by thirty gentlemen from several of
the states of our republic, forty or more gentlemen assembled at Boston
and organized the Society.

Among other statements, the call recited that a number of gentlemen,
interested in the part taken in American history by people of Irish
birth or lineage, are about to organize themselves into an historical
society for the purpose of investigating and recording the influence of
that element in the upbuilding of the nation; also to place the Irish
element in its true light in American history. To secure its correct
perspective in relation to historic events on this soil is the final aim
of the new Society. Its primal object will be to ascertain the facts,
weigh them in relation to contemporary events, and estimate their
historical value, avoiding in this process the exaggeration and
extravagance of poorly-informed writers on the one hand, and the
prejudice and misrepresentation of hostile writers on the other.

We further stated, the organization will be constructed on a broad and
liberal plan. It will be non-political, and no religious test will be
required for admission to membership or the holding of office. Being an
American organization in spirit and principle, the Society will welcome
to its ranks Americans of whatever race descent who evince an interest
in the special line of research for which the Society is organized.

Established on this broad and liberal basis, the accessions to its roll
of membership have been most encouraging, as we have now more than one
thousand members, representatives in the truest sense of the
intelligence and character of the descendants of the Irish race in
America, coming from all parts of this great country, a country which
their forefathers, among the early colonists, took an active part in
reclaiming from the wilderness and upbuilding into this great republic
of the United States, of which we are no insignificant factor. A
distinguished man, who wrote nearly a century ago, said that all history
was a series of lies, which a few men agreed to consider facts. We all
agree that much of the history that has been written in the past has
been written by men who have preferred to see things through their
prejudices rather than their eyes, and no people have suffered more from
the ignorance and prejudice of writers—particularly English writers—than
the Irish people.

Unfortunately, many New England writers inherited the prejudices of
their English ancestors, and have either deliberately slurred the
contributions of the Irish in our history, or have failed to record
them. A discriminating and critical public demands that the searchlight
shall be thrown upon the dark spots. We are now, in this scientific age,
rewriting much of our history and revising our judgment of men. We
cordially welcome this new era, confident that when all the facts are
carefully scrutinized and critically examined, the Irish in the United
States have nothing to fear, but, on the contrary, will gain
immeasurably in the minds of all intelligent and impartial men.

In the first volume of the Journal of this Society, papers will be found
treating of the early history of the Irish settlers in New England, by
Messrs. Murray, Linehan, Smith, Brandon and Sheahan, members of our
Society, thus preserving in permanent form facts useful to the future
historian. The New England historian has never been noted for modesty in
claiming a full share of the glory of our country for New Englanders,
or, as he is prone to write it, descendants of the “Anglo-Saxon” race.

While honoring, as they deserve to be honored, the men of Boston and
Massachusetts who initiated the War of the Revolution, we are not
unmindful of what others have done to make our independence possible,
and to establish this form of government of ours, founded upon the
doctrine—not of the divine right of kings or of any other ruler, no
matter what he may call himself—to rule people, but the divine right of
the people to rule themselves, and lest we forget, in our hour of
conquest, let us recall again the doctrine of the founders of this
government: that all government ought to rest on the consent of the
governed. In establishing this government, the Irish element was a very
important factor. In the British House of Commons’ Report, fifth
session, fourteenth Parliament, Vol. xiii, page 303, we find the report
of an investigation of the causes of defeat in the war with the
colonies—the investigation was held in 1779—Major-General Robertson, who
had served twenty-four years in America, was asked: “How are the
provincial corps composed, mostly from native Americans, or from
emigrants from various nations of Europe?” He answered: “Some of the
corps mostly of natives, others, I believe the greatest number, are
enlisted from such people as can be got in the country, and many of them
may be emigrants. I remember General Lee telling me that he believed
half the rebel army were from Ireland.”

In Vol. xiii, British Commons’ Reports, page 431, Joseph Galloway, a
native of Pennsylvania, speaker of the assembly of the colony for twelve
years, and a delegate to the First Continental Congress, who became a
violent Tory in 1773, was examined for several days by members of the
House of Commons. Among the questions asked was: “That part of the rebel
army that enlisted in the service of congress, were they chiefly
composed of natives of America, or were the greater part of them
English, Scotch, or Irish?” Galloway answered: “The names and places of
their nativity being taken down, I can answer the question with
precision. There were scarcely one fourth natives of America, one half
Irish, the other fourth English and Scotch.”

The Irish contributed their full share in the War of 1812, in the war
with Mexico, and in the war that kept the Union whole. All facts
relating to the part borne by them should be carefully collected. In the
late war with Spain we have a large field for investigation. From the
state of Massachusetts, one fifth of her quota of soldiers were
unmistakably of Irish ancestry; the Ninth regiment, Massachusetts
volunteers, went into the field as an Irish-American regiment; of the
four other regiments, and the large number of sailors, an impartial
investigation would show a surprisingly large number of men of Irish
ancestry, and what is true of Massachusetts is true of every state in
the Union.

Gentlemen, while we are proud of our origin and our ancestry, we do not
forget that, above all, we are Americans, that we earnestly desire that
all the different elements that go to make up this nation shall be
blended together.

This American republic is a mighty crucible into which are thrown many
elements. We have been, and shall be, tested by severe fires; we must
separate the dross and the alloy, and the refined product will come
forth purified by the severest tests. In our process of amalgamation, we
shall eliminate from the different nationalities and races what is gross
and bad, avoiding the vices and emulating the good traits and virtues,
evolving, as the product of our American civilization, the highest type
of manhood or womanhood to be found on the habitable globe.

[Illustration:

  COL. JOHN P. DONAHOE,
  Of Delaware.
  Residence, WILMINGTON.
]

[Illustration:

  CAPT. PATRICK O’FARRELL,
  Of the District of Columbia.
  Residence, WASHINGTON.
]

[Illustration:

  COL. C. C. SANDERS,
  Of Georgia.
  Residence, GAINESVILLE.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. P. T. BARRY,
  Of Illinois.
  Residence, CHICAGO.
]

  VICE-PRESIDENTS, RESPECTIVELY, FOR DELAWARE, GEORGIA, ILLINOIS, AND
                         DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.




                   RUSSIA THE FRIEND OF THE REPUBLIC.

                     BY JOSEPH SMITH, LOWELL, MASS.


At a time when so many Americans seem to be forgetting the history of
their country and are fatuously pursuing the political will-o’-the-wisp
called “British friendship”; when a society organized to frustrate the
unwisdom of foreign alliances,—the League of American Independence,—is
flouted and insulted; when the tendency of the dominant political party
in the Republic is towards international folly and its motto appears to
be “Away with the Constitution,” the incident embodied in the appended
letter may perhaps remind sane Americans what the true attitude should
be to-day towards the Russian and British empires, respectively. The
letter in question is an answer to a request made by me on Mr. Jeremiah
Curtin,—the scholarly translator of “Quo Vadis” and other works of
Sienkiewicz, and himself the author of a number of remarkable volumes on
folk-lore and kindred subjects,—for a paper on Andrew Curtin, his uncle,
the famous war governor of Pennsylvania:

                                            WARSAW, RUSSIAN EMPIRE,
                                                    December 28, 1898.

  _Joseph Smith, Esq._:

  DEAR SIR:—I have just received your letter of December 5, and hasten
  to reply.

  The time between this date and the meeting of the American-Irish
  Historical Society is so short that it would be impossible for me to
  prepare a paper as you suggest; were I free there would be
  sufficient time, perhaps, but as I am in the midst of important and
  urgent investigations I can do no more than write you a few lines.

  There are many subjects, of course, which would be of interest to
  the Society and consequently to America. The time has come when men
  who are of more than ordinary culture, and interested in the history
  of America and the British empire, are beginning to understand that
  the political and social development of these two immense
  aggregations of mankind cannot be studied in a satisfactory and
  scientific way without a thorough knowledge of the Celtic race. But,
  as I understand, the Society is occupied specially at present in
  showing the part which the Irish have taken in the United States
  both in winning independence for the republic and afterward in
  building it up; the wider aspects of the history and career of the
  Celtic race may be considered at some later time, should the Society
  so desire.

  Among men of Irish descent who have played an important part in
  American history, the late Governor Curtin deserves a high place.
  His father, Roland Curtin, when a young man, was informed by
  governmental authority that he had twenty-four hours in which to
  leave Ireland. He went to France, and from France to America. He
  settled in Pennsylvania, and established the first iron works, if
  not in the state, in that part of it where he lived.

  Without entering into the details of the governor’s career and the
  great part which he took in defending the integrity of the American
  Union, it is sufficient to state here that it was owing to him that
  Abraham Lincoln received his first nomination for the presidency.
  Had it not been for Andrew G. Curtin, Abraham Lincoln would not have
  been president of the United States. Curtin, then governor of
  Pennsylvania, received Lincoln on his way to Washington at the
  boundary of the state; together they planned the manner of the
  president’s further journey, by which he escaped, if not
  assassination, the possibility of meeting men who had it in mind.

  When a separation of the Southern states had become a fact, Governor
  Curtin invited all the loyal governors to meet in conference at
  Altoona, Pa., where he made the statement to them, that either the
  war must be carried on in real and deadly earnest with all the
  powers of the country placed at the disposal of the president, or be
  dropped altogether. After due consultation the governors decided to
  offer all the power of the states to the president, and went to
  Washington to lay that decision before Lincoln; all went except
  Governor Bradford of Maryland. After the Altoona conference and the
  meeting of the governors with President Lincoln at Washington, the
  war became that reality which won final success.

  Governor Curtin’s actions during the succeeding years of the
  struggle were such that he, Governor Morton of Indiana and Governor
  Andrew of Massachusetts, were pre-eminently the great war governors,
  the three governors uppermost in men’s minds.

  Governor Curtin’s untiring work on behalf of the soldiers of his
  state is well known and universally remembered. It is perhaps not so
  well known that he founded the first Soldiers’ Orphans’ Home in the
  United States, that of Pennsylvania.

  Some time after the war he went to St. Petersburg, as Minister
  Plenipotentiary, where he gained the respect and esteem of Alexander
  II. At his last interview the Emperor presented him a full length
  portrait of himself. This portrait, painted in oil, was made
  expressly for Governor Curtin, and was sent to his home in
  Pennsylvania by the Russian government.

  While at St. Petersburg, Prince Gortschakoff took the governor into
  the archives of the foreign office, and showed him the
  correspondence which took place between the Emperor Napoleon III and
  Alexander II of Russia concerning the recognition of the
  independence of the Confederate states. The Emperor Napoleon
  addressed an autograph letter to Alexander II, stating that the
  government of Her Britannic Majesty and his government were ready to
  acknowledge the independence of the Confederate States of America,
  and invited him to join with them. To this the Emperor of Russia
  answered, also in an autograph letter, that the people of the United
  States had a government of their own choice, and that they were
  using their best blood and treasure to defend it, and not only would
  he not do anything to oppose them, but he would reserve freedom of
  action to proceed as he deemed necessary under the circumstances.
  Soon after, the Russian fleets appeared in New York and San
  Francisco.

  Governor Curtin read the two letters of the emperors himself, and
  gave me the contents, the substance of which I have just given.

                                  Very sincerely yours,
                                                      JEREMIAH CURTIN.

The potent action of Russia in our hour of bloody stress, which held the
hands of England and Napoleon the Little, speaks louder than the
strident clamor of the American ingrates, who, forgetting our debt to
the Muscovite, would make us the ally of the Briton, the deadly enemy of
our friend and of us. Under the Providence of God, the action of
Alexander II saved this republic from being torn asunder, and we were
base indeed, if in these days we were to turn from the friend of our
hour of need to take the hand red with the blood of a hundred helpless
races.




                THE “ANGLO-SAXON” SHIBBOLETH CONDEMNED.

               BY HON. WILLIAM McADOO,[4] NEW YORK CITY.


 MR. PRESIDENT AND GENTLEMEN:

I came here to-night simply to excuse myself for not being able, as
requested, to read a paper which I had promised your committee on
“Immigration to the United States from the Province of Ulster in
Ireland.”

If I am still honored by your Society, I will be glad to read it at a
future meeting, with a view to showing not only the influence of this
immigration on the history of the United States, but the fact that these
immigrants considered themselves Irish without any qualifying clauses,
and were so regarded in America, England and Ireland.

Modern political exigencies are playing sad havoc with ethnology. If an
Irishman becomes distinguished at home or abroad, in field, forum,
market or shop, he is immediately made an Anglo-Saxon; but if he brings
up in the police court he is simply a common Irish Celt. The
“Anglo-Saxon” race is claiming everything good in the world, and they
are bent upon leaving not much of the world for anybody else.

It is very fashionable now to be an Anglo-Saxon, even if you had an
Irish father and a Russian mother. If by some divine miracle and
phenomenal transformation, all men and women with Celtic blood in their
veins could wake up in the morning with some startling demonstration of
the fact, such as green hair and yellow eyes, there would be frightful
consternation in the ranks of Anglo-Saxondom, even in the great city of
New York, and in some of the back settlements into which the first
immigrants from Ireland wandered, and where even their names have been
transformed.

If one could run all races other than the “Anglo-Saxon” out of the
United States it would not be worth England’s while to form an alliance
with what remained, and she would treat them in that kindly,
patronizing, contemptuous way that she does the ultra-loyal Canadians.
It needs no learned historian to show us the splendid record of the
Irish in America, nor how enduringly they have stamped their highest and
noblest racial impulses on every page of American history. Some of their
critics sneeringly point to the apparent fact that they have been almost
altogether too conspicuous on the field of military action, and more or
less lacking in the more patient and plodding ways of commerce and
business. They assert that they have attained more in the intellectual
diversions and pleasing arts of speech and hand, or in the mere drudgery
of unintelligent labor, rather than in those achievements in agriculture
and manufactures, which is said to be a marked characteristic of the
heavenly Anglo-Saxon.

This is gross libel on the Irishmen of America. We have here to-night at
our board, such a thoroughly representative business Irishman who in
vast enterprise, splendid achievement, industry, and dogged
perseverance, crowned with the highest success, can give the best
Anglo-Saxon in the states or England, in any venture from building
railroads to managing them, the sharpest competition of his life; and
yet Mr. John D. Crimmins of New York is but one of a splendid army of
men of Irish birth or descent who are in the very forefront of the great
industrial armies as captains and generals of those tremendous forces
which nowhere play so important a part as in the United States, and
which nowhere have competition among them more keen, nay, more deadly,
nor requiring higher talents and greater courage. Why, in this very
metropolis you cannot point to any great field of action—leaving out the
learned professions in which the Irish race is most markedly
conspicuous—in banking, manufactures, commerce, shipbuilding, and all
kinds of industrial and railroad enterprises, in which Irish names do
not appear in the directorates, fill the managers’ offices, plan and
execute the great battles of modern finance. I say we need not speak of
the learned professions, because there the keen wit, the bright, sharp
intellectuality, wonderful racial adaptability, breadth and grasp of
mind, and love of learning, have given them most commanding influence;
the same is true of congress, in legislatures, municipal bodies, and in
every court-house of the United States. The same is true of the
professions of medicine and teaching, and on the press, where they used
to say that Mr. Bennett’s pay-roll on the _Herald_ read like the roster
of the Fenian army. At any rate, there is no newspaper office in New
York where they have not conspicuous places.

Politically, I claim for them that impulsively, by reason of their
history and experiences, they are the very best of Americans. They
oppose entangling alliances because they know better than any one else,
by reason of a long, bloody, and painful history, how false are
international promises, how hypocritical and treacherous even the great
and seraphic Anglo-Saxon can be when he once gets the upper hand. Henry
II made with them the first Anglo-Saxon alliance, and Cromwell completed
it over the graves of murdered millions; over the ruins of castle,
cabin, and church, until its climax was reached when the greatest orator
of Ireland said that the instruments of government had been simplified
to “the tax gatherer and the hangman.”

Is it any wonder, therefore, that the Irish element in the United States
should be the first to raise the cry of alarm against the plot to make
this great Republic in the very hour of its triumph a mere colonial
dependency instead of a regnant and invincible nation? For myself I
yield to no man living or dead in the quality of my Americanism. I came
to the Republic and have received with unstinted hand the usufruct of
its noble freedom, its generous institutions, its magnificent and
dazzling opportunities held out to him, however humble, who cultivates
the civic virtues, is able, industrious, courageous and honest. I yield
to the Republic no double allegiance. I stand for the United States in
its vast and tremendous interests here and everywhere against all other
countries’ fatherlands and motherlands, without stint, without
reservation or hesitation.

I am proud of my Irish birth, but above all things I glory in my
American citizenship. I glory in the Republic and the splendor of its
achievements, and I transmit to my descendants for a thousand years as a
priceless heritage, that exhibition of magnificent military courage
where American arms, in spite of the axioms of military science, in
spite of the handicaps under which they suffered, swept in magnificent
fury and heaven-born courage upon the fire-fringed hills of San Juan,
brave men dying gladly, to catch a glimpse of the blessed banner of the
great Republic; ours and theirs the glory of those ships which thundered
at Cervera, that lightened the gloom of barbarian Manila, and in those
ranks of the marines at Guantanamo, and the heroes at Santiago.

Who of Irish birth or descent can but read the rosters on sea and shore
with a discriminating eye, to find his heart aflame with pride at the
splendid and unanswerable percentage of men with the hot blood of the
Celt and the high patriotism of the American, and who, next to the flag
of our common country, revere the fact that they draw their lineage from
the historic island across the sea. Surely they were not all
Anglo-Saxons in name or race who went with Hobson in his grand and
heroic endeavor, which takes its place as outstripping the classic
legends of Greece and Rome. Surely no one will deny that the roster call
of the marines at Guantanamo and the army at Santiago fairly teems with
representatives of the historic Irish soldier.

The Sixty-ninth New York and Ninth Massachusetts would be far
outstripped in numbers by the thousands of units scattered throughout
our army and navy, regular and volunteer, for wherever the stars of the
Republic light the gloom of the battle-field, or war thunders on the
deep, there, his breast bared to her enemies, whoever they be, you find
the most loyal and valorous Americans in the sons of the expatriated
Irishman. While Anglo-Saxon statesmen may quibble in congress and
Anglo-Saxon schoolmen criticise in college, “Like lions leaping at a
fold when mad with hunger’s pang,” you will find in the forefront,
disdaining quibble and laughing at criticism, the hot tide of valor and
chivalry which, proud to be American, is not ashamed to be called Irish.
Out upon the bigots who would do it injustice! Defiance to those who
would deride its power or minimize its influence!

It asks no quarter in any field of industry, learning, or strife, and is
as great in peace as in war. If its more acknowledged glories are of the
more sanguinary fields when Mars sows in blood and night what Minerva
reaps in the dews and light of the morning, it is not because of any
undue pugnacity, any animal ferocity, but because the Irish Celt,
threatened with an extermination more cruel than that of our red
Indians, with the schoolhouse closed to his intellect, and the church to
his conscience, had to take down the stainless and invincible sword of
his fathers and become a universal soldier. In every land, from the
Shannon to the Tiber, from the Tiber to the Ganges, from the Ganges to
the Potomac, and from the Potomac to San Juan; on every battle-field
from Clontarf to Fontenoy, from Fontenoy to Waterloo, from Waterloo to
Marye’s heights, where the Irish brigade climbed steeps made slippery
with their blood; and from Fredericksburg to Santiago and Manila, Irish
valor has gleamed a star on the pages of universal history.




                    A MEETING IN PROVIDENCE, R. I.,

     ON APRIL 19, 1899, TO OBSERVE THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF
                   LEXINGTON, CONCORD AND CAMBRIDGE.


The Council of the Society held a meeting at the Narragansett Hotel,
Providence, R. I., on Wednesday afternoon, April 19, 1899, in honor of
the anniversary of the Battle of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge.

President-General Gargan occupied the chair. A communication was read
from the Society of American Authors, suggesting that the organization
place itself on record in favor of recognizing December 14, next, as a
“Washington Memorial Day” throughout the country.

The date mentioned is the centennial anniversary of the death of the
_Pater Patriæ_. The suggestion was adopted, and the secretary was
directed to communicate this action to similar organizations interested
in the anniversary.

Communications were read from the Maine Genealogical Society, of
Portland; the Minnesota Historical Society, of St. Paul; the
Pennsylvania Historical Society, of Philadelphia; the Presbyterian
Historical Society, of Pennsylvania, and the Pejepscot Historical
Society, of Brunswick, Me.

A letter was read from the Navy Department, stating that the torpedo
boat _O’Brien_ would be launched at Elizabethport, N. J., on or about
July 1, this year. It was voted to hold the annual field day of the
Society at that time and place, and the secretary was empowered to make
all necessary arrangements for the event.

Secretary-General Murray announced that since the last meeting four
members of the Society have died, viz.: Hon. Patrick Walsh, Augusta,
Ga.; Hon. John H. Sullivan and Col. Patrick T. Hanley, Boston, Mass.,
and Hon. Eli Thayer, Worcester, Mass.

Resolutions were adopted expressive of the great loss sustained by the
Society in the death of those four gentlemen, and of condolence with
their respective families.

Hon. John D. Crimmins, of New York, personally subscribed five hundred
dollars for the general purposes of the Society.

Stephen J. Richardson, of New York, was introduced by Hon. John D.
Crimmins, and explained the plan and scope of a projected “Encyclopædia
Hibernica.” He asked the Council’s endorsement of the enterprise, and
the same was gladly accorded, after certain suggestions had been made
regarding the work.

The draft was read of a proposed circular to be sent to each member of
the Society, inviting financial contributions to assist the organization
in its publication work. The Secretary-General was instructed to have
copies of the draft made and one submitted to each member of the Council
for approval or emendation before the circular is finally issued. After
the admission of about forty new members the Council adjourned.


                 RECEPTION AND BANQUET TO THE COUNCIL.

Soon after the adjournment of the Council meeting just recorded, a
reception and banquet was given the members thereof under the auspices
of the Rhode Island members of the Society. The event took place in the
Narragansett Hotel, Providence.

M. J. Harson, of Providence, presided. The line was formed for the
banquet shortly after 8 P. M., and proceeded to the dining-room.

Grace was said by Rev. S. Banks Nelson (Presbyterian), of Woonsocket, R.
I., a native of Belfast, Ireland.

Among those present, in addition to Mr. Harson and Rev. Mr. Nelson,
were:

 Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass., president-general.
 Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York, vice-president-general.
 Thomas Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I., secretary-general.
 Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H., treasurer-general.
 Hon. Edwin D. McGuinness, Providence, R. I.
 Hon. Charles E. Gorman, Providence, R. I.
 Stephen J. Geoghegan, New York City.
 James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.
 Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.
 Rev. Frank L. Phalen (Unitarian), Concord, N. H.
 Col. John McManus, Providence, R. I.
 Capt. E. O’Meagher Condon, New York City.
 William H. Grimes, Pawtucket, R. I.
 Thomas F. O’Malley, Somerville, Mass.
 Stephen J. Richardson, New York City.
 Thomas O’Brien, Pawtucket, R. I.
 Michael Fitzgerald, Providence, R. I.
 M. E. Hennessy, Boston, Mass.
 Edmund Reardon, Cambridge, Mass.
 Capt. John F. Murray, Cambridge, Mass.
 William J. Feeley, Providence, R. I.
 Matthew J. Cummings, Providence, R. I.
 P. J. McCarthy, Providence, R. I.
 Edmund O’Keefe, New Bedford, Mass.
 Samuel C. Hunt, New Bedford, Mass.
 D. D. Donovan, Providence, R. I.
 T. St. John Gaffney, New York City.
 Thomas A. O’Gorman, Providence, R. I.
 Joseph Manning, Providence, R. I.

Mr. Harson opened the post-prandial exercises with a spirited address,
and concluded by introducing President-General Gargan, who spoke as
follows:


                  PRESIDENT-GENERAL GARGAN’S ADDRESS.

  FELLOW-MEMBERS OF THE AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY:

  We meet to-day on the anniversary of the Battle of Lexington and
  Concord to attest anew our patriotism, our love, devotion and
  allegiance to the Republic of the United States of America,—to
  recall the lessons taught us by the yeomanry of those two little
  Massachusetts towns, which unknown in history on April 18, 1775, yet
  before the setting of the sun on the 19th had won for themselves
  renown, as imperishable as that won at Marathon or Thermopylæ.

  One hundred and twenty-four years ago, in the neighboring state of
  Massachusetts, the first battle was fought to establish the
  principle that there should be no taxation without representation;
  and that all government should rest on the consent of the governed.
  I will not trespass upon your time by recalling the events which led
  up to the American Revolution, nor those seven years of bloody and
  terrible war. We established a government and framed a Constitution
  founded on universal suffrage, giving a vote to the good and the
  vicious, the wise and the ignorant. Thus far we have been a
  prosperous people, because in our Democracy there have been no
  inequalities of wealth and condition that we believed would be
  permanent.

  We are a composite nation, comprising people from all the countries
  of Europe with about one seventh of them of English origin; yet when
  we hear the foolish speeches and read the foolish articles of the
  minority in reference to Anglo-Saxonism, and blood being thicker
  than water, we realize the importance and necessity of the work
  inaugurated by the American-Irish Historical Society, in recalling
  and recording the deeds of Irishmen and their descendants in
  America.

  We find on the rolls of the minute-men at the time of the Lexington
  “alarm,” over 150 Irish names, and Col. James Barrett of Concord and
  Dr. Thomas Welsh, who were prominent in the day’s battle, were of
  Irish descent. We find also the name of Hugh Cargill, who, together
  with one Bullock, saved the town records of Concord from the ravages
  of the British soldiery. Cargill died in 1799, and the inscription
  on his tomb records his birthplace as Ballyshannon, Ireland. He came
  to America in 1774 in time for the Concord fight. He bequeathed to
  the town the Stratton farm for the use of the poor.

  Many of the men who fought on that as on every other day of battle
  during the Revolutionary War, claimed Irish birth or Irish ancestry.
  This Society is now endeavoring to collect records, letters and
  papers throwing light upon the part borne by the Irish race, that we
  may have our full share of the glory of our country; also that by
  critical scrutiny and analysis we may discover the truth, giving
  credit to all. This is a duty we owe these brave, devoted,
  self-sacrificing men who perilled so much for this government under
  which we live, and whose benefits we hope to transmit to our
  posterity.

  We are not unmindful of the dangers threatening us at the end of the
  century from within and from without. We recognize the fact that if
  the Republic is to be preserved we must call a halt to this awful
  headlong rush for wealth, holding up some nobler object of ambition.
  A great writer has said: “The finest fruit held up to earth by its
  Creator is the finished man.” What our country needs to-day is true
  men; men who recognize the truth of Plato’s maxim, “Justice is the
  health of the state.”

  Where can we find in history better types of true manhood than among
  the founders of our Republic, many of them of our own race and
  blood? This country has passed through four wars, and in our time
  many are filled with the lust for new conquest. May we not well
  pause on a day like this and see whither we are drifting? Shall we
  seek the friendship and alliance of the great robber nation of the
  world, whose flag is known where rapine and wrong has been done to
  weak and feeble races, or shall we not rather adhere to the
  doctrines laid down by the Father of our Country, and “observe good
  faith and justice toward all nations; cultivate peace and harmony
  with all?”


                    ADDRESS OF REV. S. BANKS NELSON.

Rev. S. Banks Nelson, pastor of the First Presbyterian church,
Woonsocket, R. I., a native of Belfast, Ireland, said in substance:

  FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN AND FELLOW-CITIZENS:

  It is a rare pleasure to me thus to address an assembly of this
  character for the first time in my seven years and a half of
  residence in the United States, my adopted country. Lexington marked
  the birth of American Independence and the Republic.

  The contiguity of Ireland to England accounts for the comparative
  ease of conquest owing to the small area of the island, as compared
  with the huge territory of the United States—absorption of Scotland,
  almost certain to be followed by absorption of Ireland. The
  religious oppression under Cromwell and William III, might soon have
  given way to mutual toleration and freedom of conscience had it not
  been intensified by economic oppression.

  Irishmen who know how the English merchant, manufacturer, landowner,
  mine-owner, and farmer, were combined by common jealousies to
  suppress competition in Ireland; how in cold blood, laws were
  enacted to hinder the development, and paralyze the energies of
  Ireland, can never naturally be found strengthening, either at home
  or abroad, a policy which makes for the aggrandizement of the few by
  the plunder of the many. The early history of our race developed to
  a remarkable degree, to a degree unattained, I believe, even in
  continental or oriental societies, the tribal life and the
  interdependencies of men in social and family relations.

  It is not surprising, therefore, that the political genius of our
  countrymen has been so splendidly manifested in municipal politics.
  Nor is it surprising again that through jealousy of the eminent
  success of Irishmen in local politics, men of other nationalities
  sneer at us as the world’s policemen. The jibe of jealousy is the
  best compliment of character. We are the world’s policemen, and that
  sarcasm has no sting for us which, wagging its head, says, “Irishmen
  rule every country but their own,” for we make bold to say, that no
  other race, not even the Jew excepted, against such overwhelming
  odds, suffering poverty so grinding and so protracted, could have
  preserved its spirit of patriotism through so many and so terrible
  baptisms of fire and blood. And, grandest triumph of all, we
  conserved its manhood, its physical and spiritual energy so full,
  that, instead of a race crippled by conquest, dwarfed by oppression
  and inapt through inexperience of self-government, the Irishman
  to-day, whether in the pulpit or the parliament, in the court-house
  or congress, on the highway or in the home, as a soldier or a
  statesman, is _facile princeps_, both in the East and in the West.

  It is impossible for Irishmen to think of Lexington without the
  associated thought of the United Irishmen,

                      “Who fears to speak of ’98?”

  We remember those noble souls who banded themselves in 1798 for “the
  purpose of obtaining the repeal of the penal laws against Roman
  Catholics and for the right of the electoral franchise” and who,
  after the illustrious Grattan’s modest reform bill had been
  rejected, and the tyranny of coercive laws had changed whips for
  scorpions, gave their lives for freedom of conscience and civil
  liberty. As an Irish Protestant I claim in the loftiest pride,
  kinship with the chivalrous Wolfe Tone, the memorable Simon Butler,
  the daring Napper Tandy, with James Nelson, the owner and fearless
  editor of the organ of the United Irishmen in Belfast; with
  McCracken the Presbyterian minister, who was hanged by the neck in
  Belfast’s High street by the British because of his scholarly
  influence in the cause of freedom, and last, yet ever first, with
  the glorious, pious and immortal Robert Emmet,—God haste the day
  when we may be able to write the epitaph for which he prayed in the
  hour of his sacred martyrdom.

  As a Protestant Irishman, I repudiate the policy, and pity the men
  with my whole soul, who in ignorant bigotry and misguided zeal—in
  which they were encouraged by their English masters—persecuted
  hundreds of their fellow-countrymen whose only offense was that they
  desired a rational measure of civil and religious liberty, and may
  the day never dawn when any of my countrymen shall be hounded again
  with the inhuman cry, “To hell or Connaught.”

  The skies are brightening. “The blood of our martyrs as the seed of
  liberty is bearing golden fruit.” We have the emancipation of the
  farmer through Gladstone; the emancipation of the taxpayers, the
  county councils through Balfour. What a change as compared with
  Salisbury’s statement in 1884, in debate on Mr. Gladstone’s
  franchise bill when Salisbury was opposing the extension of this
  franchise to Ireland: We warned you when you gave the ballot to
  Ireland, and were we wrong?

  The Irish Presbyterian clergy are, by poorly informed people,
  supposed to be of the Orange cult. Not so! There are seven hundred
  Presbyterian clergymen in Ireland, and I am certain that not half a
  dozen of these are in actual or tangible touch with the Orange
  society.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  The Rev. Mr. Nelson spoke further for the amalgamation of all
  classes of Irishmen. He dwelt on the misconception of Irish matters
  here, as illustrated by the Providence _Journal’s_ statement
  recently that the government’s scheme of a Catholic University in
  Ireland had been dropped owing to opposition of Orange bigots. Such
  opposition would have little weight, he said. The principal
  opposition arose from the attitude of the Presbyterians of Ireland
  toward the proposed measure,—an opposition which was in no degree
  influenced by religious prejudice. “I speak what I know,” said he.
  “It was opposed solely on the ground that non-sectarian education is
  in their judgment the best policy both for the healing of past
  dissensions and the development of future citizenship in beloved
  Ireland.”


                   ADDRESS BY HON. JOHN D. CRIMMINS.

Hon. John D. Crimmins of New York referred to the part Irishmen in
Pennsylvania and elsewhere took in the Revolutionary War. He also spoke
of men of Irish blood in the business world, saying that with their
aggressiveness they should push forward and develop themselves in
mercantile life. Mr. Crimmins spoke as a business man against an
Anglo-American alliance. He said that if the government wanted to expand
its territory he was with it, and we were strong enough to manage alone.
Speaking of trusts, Mr. Crimmins said that they were largely
experimental, and if the people thought they were injurious to their
interests they had it entirely in their own hands to rectify the mistake
by voting out of office the party that fostered them.

Capt. E. O’Meagher Condon of New York spoke on the enforced emigration
of Irishmen and women to the colonies, under the English penal laws.

Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass., made an appeal for funds to continue the
publication work of the Society.

Hon. John C. Linehan gave some interesting historical information
regarding Irish settlers in northern New York.

Addresses were also made by Thomas F. O’Malley of Somerville, Mass., and
Rev. Frank L. Phalen of Concord, N. H.

By a vote of the executive council, President-General Gargan sent the
following despatch to ex-Congressman Vocke, head of the German-American
anti-British alliance movement in this country:

  The American-Irish Historical Society, at the thirteenth meeting of
  its Executive Council, expresses its cordial and hearty support and
  coöperation in the movement of the German-American citizens of the
  United States against an alliance with Great Britain.

Secretary-General Murray read a number of interesting letters that had
been received.

One was from ex-President Andrews of Brown University:

                                OFFICE OF SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS,
                                                    SCHILLER BUILDING.

  MY DEAR MR. MURRAY:—It is very kind of you to remember me with an
  invitation to the banquet on the 19th instant, and you know that I
  should certainly attend were I anywhere in New England.

  These occasions hitherto have been among the most interesting which
  I have ever attended. Give my kindest regards to Mr. Gargan and to
  any of the other gentlemen attending who may remember me.

                                         Yours truly,
                                                     E. BENJ. ANDREWS.

  Chicago, April 13, 1899.

From the town clerk and selectmen of Lexington:

                                     LEXINGTON, MASS., April 11, 1899.

    _Thomas Hamilton Murray, Esq., Secretary-General American-Irish
      Historical Society_:

  DEAR SIR:—The selectmen of the town of Lexington desire to express
  their sincere thanks for the courtesy of an invitation to the
  banquet to be held at Providence, April 19, next, but regret that
  our official duties preclude our acceptance, as the day is always a
  busy one for the official heads of the town.

  We take this opportunity of returning the compliment, and trust that
  on the one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary, which occurs next
  year, your Society will be represented. We express the hope that
  your banquet will be an enjoyable one, and that the day and the
  occasion to be celebrated will furnish the impulse to make the
  exercises interesting, instructive and profitable.

  Your Society name is typical of history on the one hand;
  exemplification on the other. The history of that day and the events
  which followed it represent a struggle with the same country which
  it has been our privilege to subdue, to our immortal honor and the
  glory of the world, and it is the same country that again is
  attempting the perversion of liberty and justice; and a parallel is
  furnished by the identical principles which animate Ireland to-day,
  which animated the men of Lexington, Bunker Hill and Saratoga a
  century ago; and it has been well said, that, while Ireland has not
  yet gained the jewel of liberty for herself, yet her sons have given
  freely of their bone, their sinew and blood to set that jewel in
  many a shining crown of freedom in other lands than their own.

  Ireland has had her Lexington, and the “winter of discontent” in her
  Valley Forge is slowly melting and warming into the eternal summer.
  May her Yorktown be not long delayed!

                            {TOWN }      EDWIN S. SPAULDING,
                            {SEAL.}      GEORGE W. SAMPSON,
                                         CHARLES A. FOWLE,
                                             _Selectmen of Lexington_.

  LEONARD A. SAVILLE,
              _Town Clerk_.

A similar communication was received from Charles E. Brown, town clerk
of Concord, Mass. He was prevented from accepting the invitation owing
to a home celebration of the “Concord fight.” His communication also
bore the seal of the town, with the inscription: “_Quam firma res
Concordia_.” Letters were also announced from Thomas B. Lawler of New
York city, Ex-Congressman Weadock of Detroit, Mich., and from a large
number of others.




                      A MEETING IN NEWPORT, R. I.,

   ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF RHODE ISLAND, WHICH WAS FOUGHT
                            AUGUST 29, 1778.


The Council of the Society held a meeting in Newport, R. I., on Tuesday,
Aug. 29, 1899. The day was the anniversary of the battle of Rhode
Island, 1778, in which the American forces, commanded by Gen. John
Sullivan, “repulsed the enemy and maintained the field.”

The meeting took place at the Aquidneck House, and was presided over by
Hon. John C. Linehan of Concord, N. H.

It was announced that since the last meeting four members of the Society
had died, namely: Joseph J. Kelley of East Cambridge, Mass.; William
Slatterly of Holyoke, Mass.; the Rev. George W. Pepper of Cleveland, O.,
and the Rev. Denis Scannell of Worcester, Mass. Eulogies were delivered
on these deceased brothers, and minutes adopted expressing regret at
their passing away. Several new members were admitted to the Society.

A subscription of $100 to the publication fund was announced from Dr.
Thomas Addis Emmet of New York. It was stated that the torpedo boat
_O’Brien_ would probably be launched during September or October, the
delay thus far experienced being due to the non-delivery of steel
forgings. A communication was read from the builder of the _O’Brien_,
stating that he would be happy to have the Society participate in the
exercises of the launching.

Secretary-General Murray stated that the annual volume of the Society’s
proceedings is now in course of preparation, and that the book would be
issued at an early day. It will be uniform in size with the first volume
issued, and will contain many new features and an increased number of
portraits.

It was suggested that the Society erect a bronze tablet in Charlestown,
Mass., to the memory of soldiers of Irish birth or lineage who took part
in the battle of Bunker Hill, fighting in behalf of American liberty,
and a committee, consisting of President-General Gargan, Dr. J. A.
McDonald, the Rev. J. W. McMahon, D. D., the Rev. J. N. Supple, Dr. John
Duff and Hon. John R. Murphy, all of Boston, was appointed to consider
the matter. To this committee were subsequently added James Jeffrey
Roche, editor of _The Pilot_; Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, Dr. W. H. Grainger
and Bernard Corr, all of Boston; Joseph Smith of Lowell, Mass., and Hon.
John C. Linehan of Concord, N. H.

The Council then discussed Newport from an historical standpoint. Its
richness as a field for the Society’s work was dwelt upon. Many
distinguished men of Irish blood who lived there were recalled,—Dean
Berkeley, the famous Kilkenny scholar; the Rev. Marmaduke Brown, at one
time pastor of old Trinity church; Capt. Wilkinson, a founder of the
Newport Artillery; Commodore Perry, son of an Irish mother, who so
splendidly defeated the British on Lake Erie, and his brother, Matthew
Perry, to both of whom monuments now stand in Newport.

It was also recalled that at the outbreak of the Revolution a member of
the Boston Charitable Irish Society, Colonel Knox, later a general, went
to Newport and planned fortifications for the place; that many men of
Irish lineage came with our French allies to Newport, including Colonel,
the Count Dillon; Lieutenant-Colonel Dillon, his kinsman; McCarty, an
officer of the French battleship _Le Conquerant_; Lynch, aide-de-camp to
the Chevalier de Chastellux, and many others.

After the transaction of routine business the Council adjourned to meet
at Elizabeth, N. J., on the occasion of the launching of the torpedo
boat _O’Brien_.

In the evening, after the meeting of the Council, dinner was partaken of
at the Aquidneck, there being present some twenty-five gentlemen,
including members of the Society and prominent Newport residents who had
been invited to attend.

Hon. Charles E. Gorman, of Providence, R. I., presided and grace was
said by Rev. Louis J. Deady, of Newport.

In addition to these there were present: Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, mayor of
Newport (who is also a member of the Society); Hon. John C. Linehan,
Concord, N. H.; Thomas Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I.; J. Stacy
Brown, city solicitor of Newport; Martin Fay, Boston, Mass.; Patrick J.
McCarthy, Providence, R. I.; Pardon S. Kaull, chief of police, Newport;
Dennis H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.; Henry S. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.;
Edmund O’Keefe, New Bedford, Mass.; M. E. Hennessy, Boston, Mass., and
the following, all of Newport: Eugene C. O’Neill, Alderman J. E.
O’Neill, Rev. W. A. Doran, Rev. Philip Cronan, Rev. Fr. Reddy, Frank F.
Nolan, Philip F. Conroy, Patrick Nolan, Dr. McElroy, M. A. McCormack,
Alexander O’Hanley, William Sullivan and Michael Driscoll.

The after-dinner exercises included an address of welcome by his Honor,
Mayor Boyle; a paper by Thomas Hamilton Murray, on “The Battle of Rhode
Island, 1778,” and addresses by Hon. Charles E. Gorman, Hon. John C.
Linehan, Rev. Louis J. Deady, Dennis H. Tierney, Patrick J. McCarthy, J.
Stacy Brown and Edmund O’Keefe.

An original letter written by Gen. John Sullivan in 1778, while in
command of the Rhode Island department, was read and exhibited. The
letter is the property of George E. Briggs, of New Bedford, Mass., and a
vote of thanks was extended Mr. Briggs for his kindness in loaning the
letter to the meeting.

Letters of regret at inability to attend the meeting were received from
Hon. Elisha Dyer, governor of Rhode Island; Hon. R. Hammett Tilley,
state record commissioner of Rhode Island; Hon. John D. Crimmins, New
York city; and Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.

[Illustration:

  MR. JOSEPH GEOGHEGAN,
  Of Utah.
  Residence, SALT LAKE CITY.
]

[Illustration:

  COL. P. H. CONEY,
  Of Kansas.
  Residence, TOPEKA.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. M. D. LONG,
  Of Nebraska.
  Residence, O’NEILL.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. HENRY E. REED,
  Of Oregon.
  Staff of the _Portland Oregonian_.
]

                      FOUR STATE VICE-PRESIDENTS.




                      A MEETING IN BOSTON, MASS.,

   HELD AT THE HOTEL BELLEVUE, WEDNESDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 15, 1899.


A reception and banquet under the auspices of the Society took place at
the Hotel Bellevue, Beacon street, Boston, Mass., on Wednesday evening,
Nov. 15, 1899.

It was a very pleasant occasion, and fully equal in point of interest to
previous events of the organization.

The reception lasted from 7 to 8 p. m., and the party then formed in
line and marched to the dining hall.

Grace was said by Rev. James J. O’Brien, of Somerville, Mass., a son of
the late Mayor O’Brien of Boston. Among those at the table were the
following:

From Boston: Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, who presided; Hon. Patrick A.
Collins, Judge Burke of the Municipal Court, Thomas B. Fitzpatrick,
Edmund Reardon, William Doogue, Joseph P. Flatley, Patrick M. Keating,
George F. McKellegett, James Jeffrey Roche, J. E. Reardon, Martin Fay,
Bernard Corr, Michael J. Ward, M. A. Toland, James H. Devlin, James H.
Devlin, Jr., Peter B. Corbett, N. D. Corbett, Michael McManus, John
Shea, George E. Lynch and several others.

From other places there were present: Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N.
H.; Thomas Hamilton Murray, Woonsocket, R. I.; Eneas Smyth and James B.
Hand, Brookline, Mass.; James F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H.; Joseph
Smith, Lowell, Mass.; Dr. M. F. Kelly, Fall River, Mass.; John Hayes,
Manchester, N. H.; John T. F. Mac Donnell and John A. Mac Donnell,
Holyoke, Mass.; W. J. Kelly, Kittery, Me.; John H. H. McNamee,
Cambridge, Mass.; Thomas F. O’Malley, Somerville, Mass., and Timothy
Donovan, Lynn, Mass.

William Ludwig, the celebrated Irish baritone, was present, as the guest
of Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, and rendered several vocal selections during
the evening.

The opening address of the post-prandial exercises was by
President-General Gargan. In the course of his remarks he said: “As you
are well aware the cost of collecting material and publishing is not
small; may I not urge upon every member present to help in the important
work in which we are engaged, and if you feel you cannot afford to
contribute to our publishing fund, get at least one new member to join
our Society. We belong to a race that has contributed to the glory of
almost every nation. Here in this republic we are not subjects but
citizens, either by birth or adoption, with all that title means. We are
part of its life and history, and we will be unfaithful to the history
and traditions of our fathers if we do not endeavor to preserve in
lasting memorials the story of who they were and what they did in the
building of this great Republic.”

Mr. Gargan called attention to the fact that on Dec. 14, 1899, occurs
the centenary of the death of George Washington, for whom, he said, we
still feel an affection and an awful reverence, notwithstanding the
imperial policy of the government at Washington, which continues
dangling with foreign alliances. Mr. Gargan requested the Society to
coöperate with other historical associations in commemorating the event.

The paper of the evening was by Michael E. Hennessy, of the Boston
_Daily Globe_, his topic being: “Men of Irish blood who have attained
eminence in American journalism.” It was an able effort, showing much
research.

Joseph Smith, of Lowell, Mass., spoke entertainingly, and then offered
the following resolutions, which were adopted:

  WHEREAS, The American-Irish Historical Society, a body representing
    all phases of religious and political opinions among members of the
    Irish race in this Republic, deems it its duty to reaffirm its faith
    in the principles of free self-government, and in God’s Commandment,
    “Thou shalt not steal,” and

  WHEREAS, Freedom and honesty are the basis of all pure
    self-government, and any injury to them in any part of the world
    must in the end be an injury to this Republic and its citizens; be
    it

  _Resolved_, That this Society send greeting and sympathy to the
    embattled farmers of the South African republics; that we express
    admiration for the courage, faith, and manhood of a race which has
    thrown down the gage of battle to a rich and powerful aggressor to
    maintain its freedom; and that it is our earnest prayer that the God
    of the weak, the righteous, and the brave may crown their heroic
    struggles with glorious victory and political independence.

  _Resolved_, That any government which has entered upon a project to
    plunder and destroy two free republics is unfit to be allied to a
    nation whose basic principles are thus violated, and such alliance,
    political or moral, would make this Republic a confederate to the
    infamies thus perpetrated.

  _Resolved_, That the American-Irish Historical Society is inflexibly
    opposed to any entangling foreign alliances, and particularly to any
    alliance between the United States and the government of England,
    which has so frequently sought by war and intrigue to destroy this
    Republic, and it pledges itself, through its membership, to strive
    to curtail the political career of any public official, who
    formulates, advocates, counsels, aids, or abets any such alliance.

  _Resolved_, That copies of these resolutions be sent to the
    representatives of the South African republics in this country, and
    to such other persons as the secretary may deem expedient, connected
    with the executive and senate of the United States.

Hon. Patrick A. Collins was called upon and greeted as “the next mayor
of Boston.” He said: “I came here to-night because this is a
non-partisan gathering. Its object is the rescuing of the truth of
history in this country. It is now not unpopular or unfashionable to be
known as a man of Irish lineage or to bear the name of Patrick or
Michael. There was a time within our memory when it meant condemnation
to servility or obscurity. We have leavened the lump of Puritanism.”

After further interesting exercises the festivities were brought to a
close.




                   PAPERS CONTRIBUTED TO THE SOCIETY,

                   DURING THE YEAR, FOR PUBLICATION.


                      THE IRISH PIONEERS OF TEXAS.

                BY HON. JOHN C. LINEHAN, CONCORD, N. H.

Philip Nolan can well be styled the original “Texan Ranger.” He was one
of the first, if not the very first, of the adventurous spirits to
explore Texas, and whose daring and persistent bravery finally added the
Lone Star state to the American Union. His romantic career and tragic
fate, it is said, furnished a name for Edward Everett Hale’s “Man
Without a Country.”

He was of direct Irish origin and a citizen of the United States. He
left Natchez, Miss., in the summer of 1797, ostensibly to buy horses,
but in reality to reconnoitre and survey the country. A second trip was
made in 1800. He was accompanied by thirty armed men. The viceroy of
Mexico, looking on his movements with suspicion, issued orders to arrest
any foreigners who might enter the Spanish province.

He had been informed that a number of them had gone into Texas, and that
Philip Nolan was considered the most dangerous among them; that he was
authorized by General Wilkinson to reconnoitre the country, and make
maps of it, and that it was of the utmost importance that he be captured
and disposed of. In accordance with these instructions an expedition was
fitted out to secure him.

It was composed of one hundred men, sixty-eight of whom were regulars,
well armed, and possessed of one field piece. It started in pursuit on
March 4, 1801. Two weeks later they reached the point where he had
entrenched himself on the bank of a river. The Spanish commander
thereupon sent a messenger, “Mr. William Barr, an Irishman,” who had
joined his command as interpreter, to summon Nolan to surrender. Nolan
and his men determined to fight, and at daybreak next morning, began the
engagement by firing on the Spaniards. The contest lasted until nine
o’clock a. m., when Nolan was struck and killed by a cannon ball. His
party then surrendered.

[Illustration:

  HON. JOHN J. LINN,

  Born in County Antrim, Ireland, 1798; a pioneer
  settler of Texas; was a member of the Texan
  Congress; author of “Reminiscences of Fifty
  Years in Texas.”
]

The stream on whose bank he was killed is known as Nolan’s Creek, and
Nolan county, Texas, was named in his memory. Three of his associates,
judging from their names, were of his blood, namely, Michael Moore,
William Dandlin and Simon McCoy. John Henry Brown, author of the History
of Texas, quotes the following from a Mr. Quintero: “The diary kept by
Nolan, and many of his letters which are in my possession, show
conclusively that he was not only a gallant and intelligent gentleman,
but an accomplished scholar. He was thoroughly acquainted with astronomy
and geography. He made the first map of Texas, which he presented to the
Baron Carondelet, on returning from his first trip in 1797.”

He was followed four years later by Capt. Zebulon Pike. A third invasion
was that of the party led by A. W. Magee, a native of Massachusetts, a
graduate of West Point, and an ex-officer of the United States Army.
This expedition like that of Nolan’s ended badly for those engaged.
Seventy or eighty of them who were captured by the Spaniards were shot
and buried in one grave. They had rendered material aid, however, to the
Mexican patriots in their struggle for independence.

In 1822, thirteen years after their death, the governor of Texas, under
the new republic of Mexico, collected their bleached bones, and had them
interred with military honors. A tablet on an oak tree, near the place
of sepulchre, bore the inscription: “Here lie the braves who, imitating
the immortal example of Leonidas, sacrificed their fortunes and their
lives contending against tyrants.” It is not possible to make an
estimate of the number in this expedition who were, like Nolan and
Magee, of Irish origin, as their names are not given, but that there
were many, the record of those who followed proves. From 1813 to 1819
others followed in the steps of Nolan and Magee.

Among them were the parties led by Perry and Young. The latter had
served in the United States Army during the war of 1812. He took an
active part in the Mexican war of Independence, and lived to see them
throw off the Spanish yoke. Perry was not so fortunate. In his last
fight with the enemy every man in his command was killed, and preferring
death to capture, he took his own life, blowing out his brains. Another
expedition left Natchez, the headquarters of the ill-fated Nolan, on the
17th of June, 1819. It numbered three hundred men. and was under the
command of Dr. James Long, a native of Tennessee, and surgeon in
Carroll’s brigade in the war of 1812 and 1815.

After suffering untold hardships, this, like the others preceding it,
failed to accomplish its purpose, and the survivors, not prisoners,
returned to the state. Later, Long made a second attempt. His party
consisted of fifty-two men; the names of thirty-two are known, among
them Lieutenant Eagan from New York, “Dr. Allen, an Irish surgeon, and
Capt. John McHenry, an Irishman.” Of the latter the historian quoted
says:

“It was my fortune in early life to be a neighbor and enjoy the sincere
friendship of that true-hearted son of Ireland, Capt. John McHenry....
He was a man utterly incapable of falsehood or deception, a true
patriot, and a friend to public and private virtue.... He was born in
Ireland in 1798, and arrived at New Orleans in 1812. He took part in
Long’s expedition, and, returning in 1822 with one hundred and fifty
others in the sloop-of-war _Eureka_, he participated in an expedition
organized in aid of the Revolutionists in South America. A year or so
later he entered the trade between New Orleans and the Texas coast, as
owner and commander of a schooner. In 1826 he settled permanently on the
Lavaca river, where he reared a family and lived until his death,
passing through the Revolutionary and Indian wars as a brave man and an
honorable citizen. He died honored by those who had known him for half a
century.”

Long’s expedition met the same fate as those preceding it. He and his
men were captured. Eagan died in prison, and Long, who was taken to the
City of Mexico, was shot dead by a soldier, said to be an assassin hired
for the purpose. The time had, however, arrived when largely to the
enterprise, tact and bravery of the descendants of the men who had
established the United States government, Texas was thrown open to all
who desired to create new homes on its broad expanse. The leader in this
new and successful colonization enterprise came from far-off New
England.

His name, now a household word in Texas, was Moses Austin. He was born
in Connecticut. Early in life he went to Philadelphia, later to
Virginia, and still later to Missouri, or what is now known as Missouri.
While here his adventurous nature was attracted toward Texas by the
reports of Nolan, Magee and their successors. His ventures heretofore
had been failures, and he became interested in the founding of a colony
in the territory coveted by all who had seen or heard of it. With this
object in view, and desirous of securing permission from the proper
authorities, he made a journey to San Antonio de Bexar in December,
1820.

His residence in Missouri, then under the dominion of Spain,
familiarized him with the language and customs of its people. His
mission was successful. He returned to his home, but like Moses, he was
not destined to see the promised land, for he died shortly afterwards,
transmitting to his son, Stephen F. Austin, the duty of executing his
plans.

His application for his grant of land for a colony had been approved by
the Spanish power, about eight months before its fall, and the fact that
this concession had been made, while the memories of the invasions of
Nolan, Magee and Long were still fresh, proves that Austin was a man of
tact and resources. His daughter had married James Bryan, so that here
in the beginning, the Saxon and the Gael intermixed. Three sons, the
product of this union, William J., Moses A., and Hon. Guy M. Bryan, have
been among its most honored citizens.

Not only was Austin’s application for land for a colony granted, but a
special commissioner was sent to the United States with instructions to
conduct the first band of immigrants into the country. Stephen F. Austin
returned with the commissioner to secure a transfer of the grant made to
his father, and was accompanied by fourteen persons, all of whom became
settlers. Of these were Erwin, Barre, Beard, Belew and Dr. James
Hewitson. The latter was born in Ireland, the others bear Irish names.

The overthrow of the Spanish power and the establishment of the Mexican
government, a year later, did not affect the concessions made to Austin.
They were confirmed by the new government, and the grantee’s powers to
colonize were increased. Others, as well as he, were granted similar
privileges. Each head of a family was to receive four thousand four
hundred and twenty-eight acres of land, and one thousand seventy-six
acres were assigned to each single man.

It will not be amiss to write that during the period mentioned, namely,
the struggle for Mexican independence, General Count O’Donoju was in
command of the Royal forces, and that his failure to bring about a
reconciliation between the Revolutionists and his government occasioned
his death, which occurred in the city of Mexico, July 5, 1821. Among the
original three hundred colonists led by Austin into Texas were the
following: Martin Allen, John and Edward R. Bradley, James Beard,
Charles Breen, William Barrett, James Cummins, John Cummins, William
Cummins, Morris Callahan, David Fitzgerald, Isaiah Flanagan, David
Fenton, Charles Garrett, C. S. Corbett, Daniel Gilliland, John W. Moore,
Michael Goulderich, William Holland, Francis Holland, Samuel Kennedy,
John Kelly, Alfred Cannon, James Kerr, James Lynch, Nathaniel Lynch,
Robert James, William Millican, William McWilliams, David McCormick,
James McCoy, James McNair, John McNeil, Luke Moore, Daniel, John G. and
Geo. W. McNiel, Arthur McCormick, John McFarland, John McClosky, Thomas
McKenny, Stirling and Pleasant D. McNeil, Frederick Rankin, Elijah
Rourk, Patrick Reels and John McCormick.

Among others to whom grants of land were made were “James Power and
James Hewitson, ‘Irishmen,’ for two hundred families on Arransas Bay.”
This colony was known as “Refugio,” and the grant was made on June 11,
1828. Another was to “John McMullen, and Patrick McGloin, ‘Irishmen,’
dated August 17, 1828, for two hundred families on the Nieces river.”
This colony was known as “San Patricio.”

Both were composed mainly of natives of Ireland, with a sprinkling of
Americans of their own blood and of mixed origin. The members of these
two colonies took an active part in the movements which ended in the
establishment of the Texan republic, and the ultimate annexation of
Texas to the American Union. This tribute is paid them by John Henry
Brown in his history of Texas, in connection with what he has written of
the other colonies:

“The colony of DeLeon had increased considerably by the incoming of a
good class of Mexicans, and quite a number of Americans, including
several Irishmen and their families from the United States, the younger
members being natives of that country, and among whom were the veteran
John McHenry, a settler since 1826; John Linn with his sons, John J.,
Charles, Henry and Edward Linn, and two daughters. Subsequently, the
wives of Major Kerr and John A. Moody, Mrs. Margaret Wright, Joseph
Wright and others.

“From 1829 to 1834 the colonies of Power and Hewitson, with headquarters
at the Mission of Refugio, and McMullen and McGloin, of which San
Patricio was the capital, received valuable additions in a worthy,
sober, industrial class of people, chiefly from Ireland, a few of Irish
extraction born in the United States, and others who were Americans.

“They were more exposed to Mexican oppression than the colonists further
East, and equally so to hostile Indians. Twenty-six of these colonists
signed the Goliad Declaration of Independence, Dec. 20, 1835. Four of
them signed the regular declaration of Texan independence, March 2,
1836, and fourteen of them fell in the slaughter of Fannin’s men, March
27, 1836. In the footnote below is given a partial list of these bold
and open-hearted pioneers in reclaiming the southwestern portion of our
territory.”

Those mentioned in the footnote are as follows: Signers of the Goliad
Declaration of Independence—Morgan Bryan, John Dunn, Spirce Dooley,
James Elder, E. B. W. Fitzgerald, Peter Hynes, Timothy Hart, Thomas
Hansom, J. B. Kirkpatrick, Michael Kelly, Walter Lambert, Charles
Malone, Edward McDonald, Hugh McMinn, Thomas O’Connor, C. J. O’Conner,
Patrick O’Leary, Michael O’Donnell, James O’Connor, John Pollan, William
Quinn, Dr. Alexander Lynch, Edward Quirk, John Shelly, Edward and James
St. John and John W. Welsh.

Those butchered with Fannin’s men were—Matthew Byrne, Daniel Buckley,
Matthew Eddy, John Fagan, John Gleason, John James, John Kelly, John
McGloin, Dennis McGowen, Dennis Mahoney, Patrick Nevin, Thomas Quirk,
Edward Ryan and Capt. Ira Westover.

Signers of the regular Declaration of Independence—Edward Conrad, James
Power, David Thomas and John Turner.

Others of the Irish colonies of Refugio and San Patricio who had
distinguished themselves otherwise in the cause of Texan independence
were—Lewis Ayers, Elkanah Brush, John Bowan, Michael Cahill, John
Coughlan, Robert Lawrence, John Carlisle, Festus Doyle, William Donahue,
Benjamin Dale, Patrick Downey and his sons Francis, Thomas, Patrick,
Jr., John and James Downey; Patrick Fitzsimmons, Nicholas Fagan, William
Gamble, John Hefferman, Robert Hern, William Hewes, Dr. James Hewitson,
James Hewitson, Jr., John Hynes, John Hart and his sons Patrick, John
and Luke Hart; Thomas Hennessy, Timothy Hoyt, Charles Kelly, John
Keating, John Malone, Thomas Mullen, Patrick, Edward and James McGloin,
Malcolm McAuley, John McMullen, Martin O’Toole, Daniel Driscoll, James
O’Connor, Daniel and John O’Doyle, Edward Parry, James and Martin Power,
Patrick and John Quinn, Michael Kelly, William Redmond, William St.
John, Peter, John and Thomas Scott and John Toole. The entire number of
names given is one hundred and two.

The historian adds: “Yet in a time of political frenzy in 1855, it was
charged that these colonists were not true to Texas in the Revolution of
1835–’36. It was the privilege of the author of this work to crush the
infamous slander by presenting the preceding facts, and many others
attesting their fidelity in suffering, heroism, and in death, till the
republic became the state of Texas in 1846.” The malignant slanders were
repeated a few years ago when the patriotism and loyalty of the Irish in
the Union army were assailed by the legitimate successors of the Know
Nothings of 1855—the A. P. A.’s of 1895.

The entire number of signers of the Goliad Declaration of Independence,
which was adopted more than two months before the signing of the general
Declaration of Independence, was ninety-one. Of this number,
twenty-seven, whose names have been given, were of the Irish colonies of
Refugio and San Patricio. In addition to these, the following names,
Irish in appearance, from the other colonies, were also appended to the
Declaration: George W. Welsh, John Shelly, Robert McClure, Andrew
Devereau, George W. Cash,—making thirty-two in all, or over a fraction
of one third of the whole number of signers.

Among those who went into Texas with DeWitt’s colony in 1828 were Maj.
James Kerr, Arthur and Squire Burns, George Blair, Matthew Caldwell,
John Daly, John Duncan, John Fennell, Michael Gillan, Daniel, John,
Joseph, Jesse, John, Jr. and Samuel McBay, Stephen Morrison, George
Monoghan, B. D. McClure, John A. Neill and James B. Patrick.

“Among the early most worthy settlers at the extreme northwestern corner
of Texas, on the Red river, was Collin McKinney.” He was the oldest man
who signed the Texan Declaration of Independence, being seventy when he
affixed his name to it. Capt. Thomas William Ward went to Texas, in
1835. He was a native of Ireland and at the outbreak of hostilities in
Texas was a member of the “New Orleans Grays.” He commanded an artillery
company at the capture of San Antonio, where he lost a leg.

He lived in Texas until his death in 1872, honored and respected by his
fellow-citizens. He had held honorable positions in the gift of both
state and nation. Elijah Rourk went from North Carolina to Texas in
1821. He was one of the pioneers of the state. While in company with
David McCormick and two others, on his way to San Antonio to market a
drove of hogs, he was killed by Indians, Dec. 25, 1829. Rourk’s son, who
was with him, and McCormick made their escape. The former died as late
as 1892. He had served in the War for Independence, and in himself was a
living reminder of the sufferings of the early colonists of Texas.

William M. Logan went to Texas in 1826, one of a family which has given
eminent men to the nation for over a century. With him were several of
the Moore family. In an Indian fight reported by the celebrated James
Bowie, Dec. 10, 1831, he mentions for bravery the names of ten persons;
three of them were Matthew Doyle, Daniel Buchanan, wounded, and Thomas
McCaslin, who was killed.

In an encounter with the enemy at Anahuac in 1832, the following were
mentioned: Thomas H. Brennan, James S. McGahey and Edward Miles.

“The good Father Muldoon” has mention in an account of the battle of
Velasco, June 26, 1832. He “was an Irish priest, resident of Mexico, and
held in high esteem by the colonists.” He is also spoken of in the
prison journal of Stephen Austin. Santa Anna gave him permission to
visit Austin while the latter was in prison. He is also mentioned in the
Quarterly of the Texas Historical Society of January, 1899, and a toast
given by him at a banquet held in Anahuac is printed therein. It showed
his sympathies for the colonies, although not one of the colonists, and
was as follows:

               “May plow and harrow, spade and tack,
               Remain the arms of Anahuac,
               So that her rich and boundless plains
               May yearly yield all sorts of grains.
               May all religious discords fall
               And friendship be the creed of all.
               With tolerance your pastor views
               All sects of Christians, Turks, and Jews.
               I now demand three rousing cheers,
               Great Austin’s health, and pioneers.”

Previous to the battle of Velasco, Father Muldoon was allowed to visit
the Mexican commander, and authorized to adjust the affairs in conflict.
His mission was a failure, the enemy deeming itself strong enough to
secure its end, a mistaken idea; after a contest in which two thirds of
the Mexicans were killed or wounded, the survivors surrendered to the
Americans.

Among those who are named as participating in the engagement were John
G. Stirling, Pinkney McNeal, George B. McKinistry and Andrew Scott.
Among the delegates to the first convention held in Texas, in October,
1832, were William D. Lacy, George W. McKinistry, James Kerr, Hugh
McGuffin, Joseph, Samuel and James Looney, John Connell, Jacob Garrett,
George Butler, John M. Bradley and James Morgan.

A second convention, held on April 1, 1833, had among its members George
Butler, John M. Bradley, Jesse Grimes, Jacob Garrett, Sam Houston, James
Kerr, John H. Moore, James Morgan, William McFarland and B. D. McClure.

Mention is made of William Donoho in connection with the massacre of the
survivors of the Grant colony by the Indians. He was a merchant in Santa
Fé.—“One of those great hearted, sympathetic men who honor humanity.”
His children are credited with being “the first American natives of the
ancient town of Santa Fé.” He was from Missouri. He is credited with
being the medium through whom three English ladies were released after
being captured by the Indians, survivors of an English colony in Texas,
and whose sufferings while in possession of the Indians were terrible.
He was born in Kentucky. He died in Clarksville, Texas, in 1845,
“lamented as a true son of Kentucky.” He is spoken of in the highest
terms in Brown’s History of Texas and the Texas Scrap Book.

Daniel McCoy has mention in an account of a fight with the Indians at
San Marcos in the spring of 1835, and with him were Matthew Caldwell and
B. D. McClure. In another fight with the Indians near the Brazos, at
Washington, in July, 1835, a detachment of three companies was commanded
by Col. John H. Moore. The adjutant was Joseph C. Neill, and others in
command were Capt. Robert M. Coleman and Capt. Coheen.

Among those in attendance at the “Navidad and Lavaca meeting on July 17,
1835,” were William Millican and Major James Kerr, “the veteran John
McHenry who had fought for liberty in South America,” and was with Long
and suffered imprisonment with Millan and Austin; Patrick Usher,
Coleman, Loony, McNutt, and Scott. Among those who made a reputation in
Texas in those early days were three brothers, Patrick C., William H.
and Spencer H. Jack. They were the sons of Capt. Patrick Jack of North
Carolina.

Captain Jack was the messenger selected by the Mecklenburg Convention,
held in May, 1775, to convey the Declaration of Independence adopted by
it to the Continental Congress in session at Philadelphia.

In a movement to prevent the taking away by the Mexicans of a
four-pounder left with the people of Gonzales for protection against the
Indians, the following participated: John H. Moore, Matthew Caldwell,
James Kerr, John J. Linn, and representatives of the McClure and McCoy
families. Mrs. Margaret Linn took an important part in the affair, and
this tribute is paid her by the writer quoted: “Pause a moment, reader,
to reflect that this note was written to a young bride, not yet a
mother, educated, refined and accomplished, as many were whose graces
gave tone to society in that period of danger and excitement.”

Mrs. Linn’s duty was to forward an important despatch to a point where
aid could be procured. These were exciting times in Texas. The storm
which was to end at San Jacinto was brewing, and the settlers were
constantly on the alert, in order to be prepared for it. A party of
forty men captured the Mexican fort, Lipantitlan, twelve miles from San
Patricio. Major James Kerr, John J. Linn and James Power distinguished
themselves in this affair. No doubt there were many of their kindred
with them whose names were not given. It was a gallant and daring
enterprise, and occurred on the 5th of November, 1835.

It prevented the three men named from attending the consultation which
took place at San Felipe on the third of the same month, but “it caused
the release of several Irish prisoners held by the Mexicans.”

Some time after this event, for reasons which he deemed sufficient,
Stephen F. Austin removed the commander of a company, many of which had
aided in the capture of this fort. The company adopted a resolution
against a change, every man but the captain, Dimmitt, signing it,
sixty-seven in all. Among them were: James O’Connor, George McKnight,
James Duncan, Edward Quirk, Spirse Dooly, Robert McClure, Thomas
O’Connor, Thomas Brien, Michael Riley, Andrew Devereau, J. B. Dale,
Michael O’Donnell, Chas. Malone, Thomas M. Blake, J. L. McKenzie, Morgan
Brien, Martin Lawlor, William Cumming, Patrick O’Beary, William Quinn,
John Bowan, Jeremiah Day, Patrick Quinn, John Dunn, Thomas Todd and
James Fagan.

A company, known as the New Orleans Grays, arrived at Brazoria to aid
the Texan cause. They numbered sixty-two. Among the members were Chas.
W. Connor, John Connell, Michael Cronican, Geo. H. Gill, William Harper,
“of Ireland;” Nicholas Herron, Francis Leonard, Dennis Mahoney, M. B.
McIver, John D. McLeod, John D. McNeill, James Nowland, Christopher
O’Brien, Richard Ross, Thomas William Ward, Allen O’Kenney,—sixteen in
all. Of these, Gill, Harper, Kenney and Mahoney were butchered with
Fannin.

Among the signers of resolutions declaring for independence at Columbia,
Dec. 25, 1835, were John Sweeney and P. R. Splane. Among those massacred
with Fannin, and not mentioned thus far, were George McKnight, James
Fagan, John Donoho, James McDonald, Robert Owens, R. R. Rainey, Lieut.
John Grace (brother of subsequent Bishop Grace of Minnesota), James
Logan, John O’Moore, John S. Scully, James McCoy, Moses Butler, J. M.
Powers, Michael Carroll, Dominick Gallagher, Martin Moran, Patrick
Osborne, J. B. Murphy, J. H. Moore, John McGowan, Cornelius Rooney,
Edward Fitzsimmons, John O’Donnell, —— Glennan, George W. Coghlan,
Lieut. J. B. Manomey, James Kelley, William McMurray, Z. O’Neill, Arthur
G. Foley, D. Moore, Alfred Dorsey, J. W. Duncan, John Kelly, W. E. and
James Vaughn and William Quinn.

S. Tucker Foley and James Foley, brothers of Frank G. Foley, were killed
by the Indians. Among the few who escaped the Fannin butchery were Capt.
James H. Callahan, Peter Griffin, J. McSherry, Nicholas Waters, W.
Welsh, A. M. Boyle, Capt. Wm. Sherlock, William Brennan, J. H. Neely, N.
J. Devenny, Bennett Butler and William Murphy.

During General Houston’s march he encamped at the ranch of a Mrs.
McCurley. The historian writes that the condition of affairs just before
the battle of Jacinto was such that the hopes and fears of the whole
American population west of the Trinity gathered around General Houston.

Many of those who inhabited the western portion were without means of
escape. Among the number were many of the Irish families of Refugio and
San Patricio, still weeping and wailing for their sons and brothers who
had been massacred with Fannin. The wife, sister and first-born child of
John J. Linn were of the number.

The battle of San Jacinto occurred on April 21, 1836. Among those who
participated of known Irish origin, or bearing Irish names, were the
following,—Gen. Sam Houston, Col. Robert M. Coleman, Surgeon J. P. T.
Fitzhugh, Lieut.-Col. J. C. Neill, John M. Wade, Willis Collins, J.
Neil, E. Nixon, Jacob Duncan, W. B. Sweeney, Lieut. Robert McClusky,
Daniel O’Driscoll, and Cassidy, Flynn, Farley, Montgomery, O’Niel,
Sullivan, Moore, Hogan, Callahan, Capt. Richard Roman, McStea,
McAllister, Morgan, McNeill, Donan, Gill, Adjutant Nicholas Lynch,
Griffin, Hayes, Welsh, Magill, Cunningham, Herron, Conley, Dempsey,
Blahey, Connell, McClelland, Bryan, Duncan, Maher, O’Conner, Connor,
McNeill, Malone, McLaughlin, Hagan, McCrabb, Sennatt, O’Connor, Ryan,
John, Lewis and Stephen T. Foley; Waters, Rainey, Cannon, Gentry, Dunn,
Adjutant B. McNelly, Kincannon, Mitchell, McCoy, McLinn, Logan; Patrick
Carnell, McManus, McFadden, Orr, Cornelius Devoy, Duffy, Cole, Lieut.
David Murphy, Bradley, Boyd, Barr, Sweeney, Gallaher, McGay, McCormick,
Hayes, Kenyon, Brennan, Corry, Capt. Thomas McIntire, Gill, Boyle,
Campbell, McCorley, Madden, Montgomery, John and Andrew Ferrall,
McMillan, O’Bamion, Capt. Bryan, Irvine, Clarke, McGary, Maxwell,
McGowan, Hughes and Hannan.

When Santa Anna was captured and brought before General Houston a youth
named Bryan, nineteen years old, acted as interpreter. Among those
butchered by the Indians pending the siege of the Alamo, was the
Dougherty family, but two members escaping. Of another party attacked
about the same time, five of the males were killed. Five persons more,
three of whom were females, were taken away by the Indians. One of the
latter was rescued in 1860, after being a captive nearly twenty-five
years.

Her recovery was made by Capt. Lawrence Sullivan Ross, commanding a
company of Texas Rangers, later a general in the Confederate army, and
still later governor of Texas. The counties of Refugio and San Patricio
had been almost depopulated by the ravages of Mexicans and Indians. In
consequence, the scattered exiles from these localities wherever they
might have been, were allowed to vote for representatives and senators
to represent their county in the first congress of the Texan republic.

This congress met on the third of October, 1836. Sam Houston had been
chosen president, receiving 5,119 votes of a total of 6,640. The two
Irish colonies were represented in congress as follows: Refugio, Elkanah
Brush; San Patricio, John Geraghty. The colony of Victoria had quite a
sprinkling of Irish settlers, among them the family of the McLinns. It
was represented by Richard Roman. It is not at all unlikely that this
may originally have been the name Ronan, a common Irish name. Sabine
sent John Boyd. Collin McKinney represented Red River, and Jesse Grimes,
Washington. Among the judges appointed by this congress were W. H.
McIntire, Massillion Farley, Patrick Usher, Bartlett McClure, Geo. B.
McKinstry, John Dunn, John Turner (the two latter were for Refugio and
San Patricio), William McFarland and John McHenry.

Stephen F. Austin died in December, 1836. “Among the touching episodes
connected with the death of General Austin was the presence with him in
the hour of death of perhaps his oldest friend, Major James Kerr, of
Lavaca, who had served with him in the territorial legislature of
Missouri, twenty years before, and who had ever been his warm and
confidential friend in Texas.” What this friendship meant to Austin none
but the readers of Texan history, or those who took part in the stirring
events of the period, can determine.

Among the commanders in the new Texan navy was Capt. J. D. Boyland, and
among the members of the second congress were Patrick J. Jack, James
Power, John Boyd, John J. Linn, Collin McKinney, Thomas H. Brennan and
John Dunn. In the third congress were Holland Coffee, James Kerr,
Richard Roman, Benjamin Odlum, John J. Linn and Anthony Butler, the
latter afterwards United States minister to Mexico.

Austin, the capital of Texas, was laid out and building begun in 1839.
Before November of that year, it was said to contain fifteen hundred
souls, and this was written of it: “Certainly in no settlement where
defence against savages depended upon the members of every household,
was there ever more enlightenment and refinement.”

Among the prominent residents at this period were Martin Carroll Wing,
Col. Hugh McLoud, A. C. McFarland, William H. Murrah, James Burke, H.
Mulholland, John D. McLoud and Richard F. Brennan. Among the killed and
wounded in an affair with the Indians at San Antonio in March, 1840,
were a Mr. Casey and Private Kelley. In an engagement brought about by
an Indian raid on Victoria and Linnville, in August, 1840, the following
took part: John H. Moore, Capt. Matthew Caldwell, Capt. Thomas William
Ward, Capt. Andrew Neill and W. H. Magill.

One of the three commissioners accompanying the expedition to New
Mexico, under command of Gen. Hugh McLoud, in June, 1841, was Dr.
Richard F. Brannan, “as gallant a gentleman as was ever born on the soil
of Kentucky,” and accompanying him was a Mr. Fitzgerald. This
expedition, partly owing to the treachery of one of its officers, was
obliged to surrender to the Mexicans. Many were taken captives to the
City of Mexico, and were treated in the most inhuman manner by those
having them in charge. One of them, John McAllister, being unable to
march, was shot dead by the brutal commander, who cut off his ears as
trophies.

Among other officers in the Texan navy, were Captains Brennan and
McKinney, Lieutenant Gallaher and Doctor Quinn. James Morgan and William
Bryan were appointed commissioners by President Houston to take
possession of vessels of the Texan navy on the Mississippi, in 1843.
During Houston’s second term, James Reilly was minister to the United
States, and Captain Thomas William Ward was commissioner of the land
office.

William Bryan represented Texas as a local agent in New Orleans in 1835.
It was through his influence largely that the services of the New
Orleans Grays were secured. M. A. Bryan was secretary of legation at
Washington under the presidency of Lamar, 1838 to 1841. James Reilly was
one of four commissioners to effect a foreign loan under the same
administration, and two of the United States ministers to Texas during
the same period were William H. Murphy and George H. Flood, both of whom
died in Galveston.

In the movement to repel the attack of Vasquez on San Antonio, in 1842,
the following took a prominent part: Capt. John C. Hayes, Cols. Matthew
Caldwell and John H. Moore, Capt. James H. Callahan, John R. Cunningham,
John Twohig, James Dunn, Capt. Andrew Neill, James P. Kincannon, Stewart
Foley, Maj. James Kerr, Matthew Talbott, John J. Linn, David Murphy,
John Sweeney and M. A. Bryan. The name of Capt. William M. Ryan appears
as the commander of a company for the invasion of Mexico about the same
period. Among others were Capt. S. McNeill, Capt. John C. Hayes, Maj.
David Murphree, John Sweeney, Edward Linn, Lieut. M. A. Bryan, Jr., and
Adjutant Thomas A. Murray.

Among the “doomed seventeen” Texans shot by the Mexicans after their
surrender at the Battle of Mier were P. Mahoney, Henry Whaling, J. L.
Cash, W. N. Cowan and Martin Farrell Wing. Among those shot in the City
of Mexico was Capt. Ewen Cameron, a “Highlander” native of Scotland. He
had been the loved and trusted leader of his band of Rangers for seven
years. Among the others killed or butchered, connected with this
expedition, were James Urie, W. J. McIllrea, Dr. Richard F. Brennan, A.
Fitzgerald, Patrick Lyons, L. L. Cash, Patrick Mahan, William Rowen and
James Neely. Among those who died in prison were W. B. C. Bryan, John
Irvin, Mr. McDade, John Owen and Patrick Usher. Among the prisoners who
survived were Nathan Mullin, Jerry Lehan, Thomas A. Murray, Patrick
Doherty, John Fitzgerald, John Morgan, Major McQueen, John Canty, ——
Donnell, John Brennan, Thomas Burke, Frank Hughes, Edward and Richard
Queen, John Lacy, Patrick and S. G. Lyon, P. M. Maxwell, William Moore,
G. McFall, John McGinley. Charles McLaughlin, —— McMath, James McMicken,
John McMullin, James B. and H. Neely, Francis Kelly, A. J. Rourk,
William M. Ryan, Daniel C. Sullivan, John Twohig, Andrew Neill and
Francis McCoy.

In January, 1842, Henri De Castro received authority from President
Houston to settle a colony west of the Medina, and before his labors
were completed, he had introduced over five thousand emigrants from the
Rhenish provinces of France. Castro and his colony are spoken of in the
highest terms by all Texan writers. They received a cordial welcome from
the Texans, many of whom visited them in person. These new immigrants,
added to the others preceding them, furnished the new republic with a
most composite population. In the convention of 1845, which voted for
annexation to the United States, among others were: Philip M. Cuney,
John Caldwell, A. S. Cunningham, Spearman Holland, H. L. Kinney, Andrew
McGowan, John T. McNeill, Francis Moore, James Scott and James Power.

Sam Houston was chosen one of the two first United States senators to
represent the new state. Among those whom the historian of Texas writes
should be held in grateful remembrance for what they have done for Texas
are: Sam Houston, David Crockett, Patrick C. Jack, Thomas William Ward,
Robert C. Wallace, Henry W. Karnes, John Forbes, James Power, John
McMullen, Patrick McGloin, Francis Moore, Thomas McKinney, Holland
McKinney, Jesse Grimes and John H. Moore.

The outbreak of the Mexican War, which followed annexation, furnished
opportunity to settle old scores, and here Irish names galore appear,
battling in a contest which was to extend still farther the boundaries
of the United States. Their history, however, more properly belongs to
the nation than the state. Many of those mentioned heretofore, surviving
the contests with the Indians and the Mexicans, participated in the
Mexican War, and with them many of their kindred of Irish origin,—men
like General William S. Harney, the immortal Phil Kearney, who fell at
Chantilly; Commodore Kearney, Maj. Andrew McReynolds, a native of
historic Dungannon, and a schoolmate of Gen. James Shields, and who,
like Shields, lived to take part in the Civil War, being a major-general
in the Union army; and many others.

Among the signers of the Texan secession ordinance were: Lewis F. Casey,
Lewis W., Thomas and Burns C. Moore, Thomas McCraw, T. C. Neal, Thomas
J. Devine, Edward Dougherty, John N. Fall, John H. Feeney, John Ireland,
W. C. Kelly, J. R. Hayes, W. N. Neyland, D. M. Pendergast, John H.
Reagan, W. T. Scott and J. S. Lester. John H. Reagan became
postmaster-general of the Southern Confederacy, and T. J. Devine took a
prominent part in public affairs during the Civil War.

Among the Texans who distinguished themselves in that war in the
Confederate army were: Col. James Bowland, Maj. Joseph A. Carroll, Gen.
Lawrence Sullivan Ross; Colonels: Hugh McLoud, James E. McCord, James
Duff, John C. Burke, James Reilly, Harry McNeill, W. H. Griffin, F. I.
Malone; Majors: John Ireland and Thomas Flynn, and Gen. John D. McAdoo.

James W. Flannigan was the first lieutenant-governor of Texas elected
under the reconstruction period, November, 1869. Later, James W.
Flannigan was elected United States senator. Webster Flannigan was
president of the state senate in 1871, and Guy M. Bryan speaker of the
house in 1874.

John H. Reagan was chosen United States senator in 1887. Among the
representatives chosen since the Civil War to congress were: John C.
Conner, W. P. McLean, W. H. Martin, L. W. Moore and Silas Hare.

S. B. Donley was one of the judges of the supreme court in 1867, and
associated later with him was John D. McAdoo. On the reorganization of
the supreme court in 1874, George F. Moore, Thomas J. Devine, and,
later, John Ireland were appointed judges of the supreme court. John
Ireland was elected governor in 1882, serving two terms. He was
succeeded by Gen. Lawrence Sullivan Ross, who also served the same
number of years.

Father Timon was the first priest to say mass in the new towns of
Galveston, Houston and Austin, in 1838. He did not remain in Texas. A
year later Fathers Joseph Hayden and Edward A. Clarke came from
Bardstown, Kentucky, to minister to the Catholics, who were numerous in
Lavaca county, and many of whom came from Missouri, Pennsylvania and
Kentucky.

Father Hayden also attended to the spiritual wants of the Catholics in
Refugio and San Patricio, and the other settlements in the coast
country. He died less than two years after his arrival. Father Clarke
labored in Texas for eighteen years, dying in Houston. Rev. John Murray
Odin was ordained bishop of Galveston in 1847. In 1893 there were three
Catholic bishops, namely: Gallagher of Galveston, Nerez of San Antonio,
and Brennan of Dallas. Rev. Daniel Carl, Rev. A. Rourk and Rev. Andrew
McGowan were Methodist clergymen laboring in Texas in 1837.

Dr. Francis Moore was one of the proprietors of the _Telegraph and Texas
Register_ in 1837; Martin Carroll Wing was assistant editor of the
_Texas Sentinel_ in 1840; and Michael Cronican was one of the
proprietors of the _National Register_. B. F. Neill was one of the
founders of the _Galveston News_ in 1842, and John D. Logan of the
_Texan Advocate_. Robert Loughery in 1848 established the _Texas
Republican_.

Among the counties named in honor of persons of Irish origin are:
Callahan, Coleman, Collin, Cochran, Crockett, Donley, Foley, Grimes,
Hayes, Karnes, Kinney, Linn, McLennand, McMullen, Montgomery, Moore,
Martin, Mitchell, Nolan, Terry, and the two Irish colonies are
remembered in two counties named San Patricio and Refugio.

Sam Houston, in a speech made in 1855, during the Know-Nothing period,
is quoted by the _New Hampshire Patriot_ of June 30, 1855, as saying:
“Every drop of blood in my body comes from an Irish source.” It is also
stated in the Quarterly of the Texas Historical Association for January,
1899, that when he first went to Texas he was baptized a Catholic, his
godmother being Mrs. Eva Catherine Rosine Sterne, wife of Capt. Adolphus
Sterne, and mother of Mrs. W. A. Ryan of Houston, Texas.

The Quarterly of the same association for October, 1898, contains an
article on Rutersville college. It was founded in 1838 by the Methodist
denomination, and the first teacher was Rev. D. N. V. Sullivan. The
trustees and honorary trustees, or among them, were: Joseph, William, A.
W., Lewis N., Quincy S. and Clarke D. Nail, E. L. and John C. Moore,
Daniel Barrett, Jordan Sweeney and Mr. Sweeney, Martha Reagan, Miss
Reagan and Elvira Nail. An article in the same Quarterly, written by A.
M. Kenny, states that the first school in Austin’s colony was opened in
1835, and was taught by an Irishman named Cahill. Another, in 1836, had
for a teacher a Miss McHenry, and a third was taught by a Mr. Dyas, “an
old Irish gentleman.”

The Texas Historical Association is but two or three years old. One of
its founders is Hon. John H. Reagan, ex-postmaster-general of the late
Southern Confederacy. Its only life-member in January, 1899, was D. M.
O’Connor of Victoria county. Associated with him as honorary
life-members were Guy M. and Joel Bryan and John H. Reagan. The Texas
_Scrap-Book_ states that the father of David Crockett was an Irishman,
and his mother a native of Maryland. He was born in Tennessee.

Most of the material for this paper was compiled from Ramsay’s History
of Tennessee, Pickett’s History of Alabama, and Brown’s History of
Texas.

The latter can well be considered one of the fairest historical works,
so far as nationality and creed are concerned, of any published since
Ramsay’s History of the United States. It is about the only work
relating to the early history of a state in which the Irish, as a race,
have had due credit given. The term “Scotch-Irish” is not found in
either volume of the work.

No attempt has been made in this paper to give a history of the stirring
events which brought about the separation of Texas from the Mexican
republic. The only object was to place on record in proper form the
names of those whose character denotes the origin of those who bore
them, and at the same time to endeavor to arrange them, partially, in
the shape of a narrative, in order, if possible, to make it interesting
to the reader.

The part taken by the Irish in Texas is pleasant reading for those of
that element. Three Texas members of the American-Irish Historical
Society, all bearing distinguished Irish names, are: Gen. A. G. Malloy,
Capt. Moses Dillon and Mr. Charles Mehan, of El Paso, Texas, and to them
this paper is respectfully dedicated.

  NOTE.—Since writing this paper on Texas I have received a
  communication from the Rev. T. K. Crowley, of Dennison, Texas. He
  writes that having seen mention of what I was preparing, he took the
  liberty of sending me a book entitled “Reminiscences of Fifty Years
  in Texas,” published in 1853 and written by Hon. John J. Linn, who
  is one of the Irish-American pioneers mentioned in this paper. Mr.
  Linn was born in the county of Antrim, Ireland, in the year 1798.
  His father was identified with the United Irishmen Association, and
  being one of those fortunate enough to escape death or imprisonment,
  came to this country with his family early in the nineteenth
  century. They were Catholics, true adherents of the old faith, and
  this fact evokes the thought that had the Linns been Presbyterians
  instead of Catholics, and had they immigrated to New Hampshire
  instead of to Texas, their descendants would, undoubtedly, in our
  day, have styled them Scotch-Irish, and as is the custom, claimed
  they were of pure Saxon blood.

  Father Crowley wrote that he knew Mr. Linn very well, and that he
  served Mass for him in the cathedral in Galveston when he was eighty
  years of age. He was truly one of the original pioneers of the Lone
  Star state, going there as early as 1829. This is but a little over
  a quarter of a century after the death of the ill-fated Philip
  Nolan.

  The very fact that the mention of this paper in the press brought
  this communication from Father Crowley, is proof that the leaven is
  working, and many facts now hidden will, in time, through the labors
  of the Society, be brought to light.

                                                              J. C. L.

[Illustration:

  MR. JAMES CONNOLLY,
  Of California.
  Residence, CORONADO.
]

[Illustration:

  REV. JOHN J. McCOY, P. R.,
  CHICOPEE, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  COL. JAMES MORAN,
  PROVIDENCE, R. I.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. HUGH McCAFFREY,
  PHILADELPHIA.
]

  STATE VICE-PRESIDENT FOR CALIFORNIA, AND THREE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE
                                SOCIETY.




                   EARLY IRISH SETTLERS IN KENTUCKY.

               BY EDWARD FITZPATRICK,[5] LOUISVILLE, KY.


Kentucky was admitted to the Union as a state June 1, 1792, but long
before that time Irishmen had invaded the “Dark and Bloody Ground.”
Indeed, when Daniel Boone took time to write a little history for future
generations, on one occasion, by carving in the bark of a tree with his
jack-knife: “Here D. Boone Cilled a Bar,” it is not improbable that an
Irishman was within speaking distance.

Simon Kenton, the companion of Boone, and who came to Kentucky in 1771,
was of Irish parentage. His father was born in County Donegal. Another
Irish companion was Michael Stoner. Kenton’s life was even more romantic
than Boone’s. While yet a minor he fled from his state because he
believed he had killed a rival for the hand of a fair Virginia damsel,
and, coming to the wilds of Kentucky, assumed the name of Simon Butler.
To recount his many deeds of personal bravery and privation would fill a
volume. Indeed, it was asserted by many that he was the greatest Indian
fighter the country ever produced.

In 1782, hearing that the man he had struck down with his fist was still
alive, he resumed his name, and in 1795 served as major under Gen.
Anthony Wayne. He founded Kenton’s Station and Maysville, and planted
the first corn raised in the state north of Kentucky river. Michael
Stoner, one of his companions, and Thomas Kennedy, another Irishman,
built a cabin and made some improvements on Stoner’s fork of Licking
river, in Bourbon county, in 1774. Future generations are indebted to
men of Irish blood for many of the early settlements of this state, made
under so much difficulty, and it would be impossible to fully treat the
subject in one paper or in a dozen, so romantic are many of the
characters.

Kentucky was only a colony or county of Virginia up to 1791, and the
latter state exercised full control over its lands until Gen. George
Rogers Clark disputed this right shortly before the state was admitted
to the Union. The records show that with the surveying parties sent out
by the state of Virginia to this territory were many men bearing Irish
names, not “Scotch-Irish,” but plain Irish.

Col. George Croghan, an Irishman, writing in his journal June 1, 1765,
says: “We arrived within a mile of the falls of the Ohio (Louisville)
where we encamped after coming 50 miles this day.” This was even before
Boone’s time. Colonel Croghan was a connection by marriage of Gen.
George Rogers Clark, who reduced the British possessions in the entire
Northwest and made it first possible for the United States, instead of
England, to acquire this territory. If General Clark was not an Irishman
himself, his records show that he had many Irishmen with him as
soldiers. His sister married William Croghan.

The first survey made of Louisville was in 1773 by Capt. Thomas Bullitt;
his associates were John Fitzpatrick, James, George and Robert McAfee.
Dr. John Connolly owned two thousand acres of land in Louisville in
1773. Col. John Campbell, a native of Ireland and a resident of
Louisville about this time, was afterward a member of the first state
constitutional convention, held in Danville in 1797.

Colonel Campbell was an Irish Presbyterian and proud that he was Irish.
He never mentioned once in any of his letters or speeches that he was
“Scotch-Irish,” though he made many speeches and wrote many letters. He
was speaker of the Kentucky house of representatives and afterward a
member of congress. He was often a delegate to the Presbyterian Synods
in Kentucky and was always spoken of as an Irishman, without any prefix,
though he was born in the province of Ulster. Colonel Campbell was a
pioneer of whom the Irish might well feel proud. He was an intense
patriot, and being a large landowner, sent for many of his countrymen to
come to Louisville, and this was another cause for swelling the early
Irish immigration to Kentucky.

William H. English spent much money and five years of his life writing a
history of the “Conquest of the Northwest Territory,” by George Rogers
Clark and his associates. While Mr. English may perhaps be forgotten by
future generations as the man who was the running mate of Gen. Winfield
S. Hancock on the Democratic presidential ticket of 1880, he will ever
be remembered by reason of the publication of this most accurate and
valuable history. He, during twenty years, collected while a congressman
and at other times, the names of nearly all the soldiers who were with
General Clark in his fights with the British and Indians, beginning in
1780, several years before Kentucky was a state. He devotes seven
hundred pages to the deeds of Clark and his men, and they deserve all of
it. It would take a good deal of space to give the Irish names in this
roll of Clark’s soldiers.

With General Clark came to Louisville, in 1778, John Haggin and John
Montgomery, and both were captains in his command. They landed at Corn
Island, in the Ohio river, at the head of the falls, opposite where
Louisville now stands. In 1782 there lived in Louisville, with their
families: John MacManus, Hugh Cochran, John Doyle, John Caghey, John
Cunningham, Michael Humble, John Handley, Andrew Hines, Thomas McCarty,
Thomas Purcell, James Sullivan, James Brown and John McCarland, and most
of these came with Clark. That was a pretty good Irish settlement for
those days when a man who went out to plough corn was obliged to take
his rifle along to defend himself against hostile Indians.

No one will venture to say that Matthew Lyon, born in County Wicklow, in
1746, was a “Scotch-Irishman,” though I have heard lately that some of
his descendants are now claiming that rather peculiar distinction.
Matthew Lyon brought the first printing office across the mountains to
Kentucky, and it did not come in a railroad train either. It was fetched
in a jolt wagon and a good deal of the type was “pied” before it ever
got here. From this type and press the first newspaper ever printed in
Louisville was issued. Matthew Lyon’s father was executed in Ireland for
alleged treason in 1765. The boy, aged thirteen years, was bound by
himself to the captain of the vessel which brought him across the ocean,
to work for twelve months to pay for his passage.

A Connecticut farmer gave the captain two bulls for Matthew Lyon’s
services, and he worked out his time faithfully with that farmer. Ever
afterward his great oath was “By the bulls that bought me.” Lyon county,
Ky., is named for him, and his remains lie buried at Eddyville, which
town he founded. Matthew Lyon, though once sold for two bulls, took no
mean part in the making of history for his country, not only in
Kentucky, but also in Vermont, where he went after working out his time
with the Connecticut farmer. He belonged to the Green Mountain Boys, was
a colonel in the Revolutionary War, and afterwards a member of congress
from the Granite state as well as from Kentucky. In 1798 he was
prosecuted under the Alien and Sedition laws and fined one thousand
dollars and confined in jail for four months. While in jail he was
elected to congress, and by his vote broke the deadlock which elected
Jefferson president.

Coming to Kentucky soon afterward, he was a pioneer in the wilderness
where Lyon county is now situate, and his neighbors sent him to the
legislature at Frankfort. He afterwards served in congress from Kentucky
for eight years (1803–’11). He was in 1813 appointed to an Indian agency
in Arkansas, and was elected to congress from that state. So Matthew
Lyon, a plain Irishman, claiming no Scotch prefix, has the record of
being elected to congress from three states. His son, Chittendon Lyon,
was a member of congress in 1827, and his descendants still live in the
state.

Many of the old families in Louisville are of Irish descent, but it
would take too much space to mention even a fair portion of them. In
1784 Patrick Joyes settled in Louisville, and his family grew, leaving
many descendants, one of them being the present county attorney of
Jefferson county. The original Joyes was a man of education, speaking
French, Spanish and other tongues fluently, so that at least one
Irishman was of polished intellect in the early settlement of the city.

William H. English, being a millionaire, could afford to spend a great
deal of time and money in collecting information about the Northwest
territory and Kentucky. On one of his visits to Louisville he told me
that had it not been for the Irish in Clark’s command the latter would
never have whipped the British and Indians. The Irish, fresh from
persecutions in the old country, were very bitter against the English,
and were of great help to Clark. Mr. English had a great deal of
information on this subject which has never been published. Of course,
in his history he makes no reference to nationalities except where it
was absolutely necessary, it being his purpose to simply give credit to
Clark and his soldiers for their wonderful work.

Dr. Thomas Dunn English, writing of a trip he made through the mountains
of Kentucky, on one occasion tells of an incident which shows that many
people of Irish descent in this state are ignorant of the fact. He was
riding along one day in a wagon when his companion, a lanky native boy
of the mountains, saw a rabbit run across the road. “Stop a minute,
Dock,” said the boy, “till I heave a dornick at that rabbit.” Dr.
English coming to inquire, found that the mountains of Kentucky had been
settled long ago by Irish and that “dornick” was one of the many Irish
words which survived.

Even before Clark came to Louisville, Simon Kenton records that, in
1775, he located in the Upper and Lower Blue Licks, where there was an
abundance of game, and he considered it a paradise. One day, to his
great astonishment, there came out of the woods toward his cabin, two
men who gave their names as Fitzpatrick and Hendricks. They had been
living in the vicinity for sometime. Fitzpatrick said he wanted to
return to Virginia, and Kenton escorted him to the Ohio river, bidding
him good-by near where the town of Maysville now stands. While Kenton
was taking Fitzpatrick to the river, Indians entered the cabin and
killed Hendricks. Michael Stoner, another Irishman, who was Boone’s
companion in 1774, told Kenton that there were a number of settlers in
the interior who were not from Virginia.

In 1775 Hugh Shannon, Patrick Jordan, John Lee and others settled at
what is now known as Lexington. It is recorded that Patrick Jordan found
a spring down the fork on which they camped. Joseph Lindsey afterward
paid Jordan two guineas to allow him to locate near the spring, and the
first clearing was made there. This is now the garden spot of the Blue
Grass region of Kentucky, where all the fine fast horses and the pretty
women and good whiskey come from. In 1775 the first roasting ears were
gathered from this clearing. John Haggin located there soon afterward,
having come down the Ohio and up the Licking river to the settlement.

There were probably other Irish people eating roasting ears in the Blue
Grass region one year before the Declaration of Independence was read in
Philadelphia, but their names have not been preserved. Certain it is
that the people living in this settlement, first peopled by the Shannons
and the Jordans, as soon as they heard of the Revolutionary battle of
Lexington, Mass., named their settlement after that battle. They were
certainly not English sympathizers to do this.

In 1775 Ben. Logan settled where the town of Stanford is. Both his
father and mother were born in Ireland. Logan was a companion of Boone.
He planted the first corn in what is now known as Lincoln county, was a
colonel in the militia, and was one of the most daring of the early
pioneers.

Daniel Boone, in 1775, found in Powell’s Valley, Richard Hogan, Hugh
McGarry, Thomas Denton, and their families. These located afterwards at
Harrodstown. Mrs. McGarry and Mrs. Hogan were the first white women to
go up Salt river, which historic stream is now so frequently mentioned
in connection with the defeated candidates after elections. The Hogans
and the McGarrys have frequently “gone up Salt river” since,
figuratively speaking, but the Indians were not waiting for them on the
banks with a tomahawk as they were for Mrs. Hogan and Mrs. McGarry in
1775.

People of Irish birth or extraction were pioneers in the educational
line in this commonwealth, even before the Declaration of Independence.
Bishop Spalding, in his notes on Kentucky, says that Mrs. William
Coomes, an excellent Catholic lady, taught school in Harrodsburg in
1775. This was before a church or a court was opened in Kentucky. Smith,
the historian, though not a Catholic, agrees with Bishop Spalding, and
says that “in the year 1775 Dr. Hart and William Coomes settled Drennon
Spring in Henry county, but afterward moved to Harrod’s Station. Dr.
Hart practised medicine, and Mrs. William Coomes opened a school for
children.” “Thus,” he observes, “the first physician and the first
school teacher in Kentucky were both Catholics.” Whether they were Irish
or not they got the credit as being of that race, as did all the
Presbyterian Irish in the early history of the state get the reputation
of being Scotch.

Joseph Doniphan taught school in Booneboro in 1779, and the children of
Daniel Boone were his pupils. Nothing is known of his early history, but
it has been asserted that his proper name was Donavon, and was corrupted
into Doniphan or Doniphant.

A writer with the leisure and means could strike a rich field in looking
up the names of the Irish connected with the early settlement of the
state, and it is no exaggeration to say that seventy-five per cent. were
of that nationality.

[Illustration:

  REV. RICHARD HENEBRY, Ph. D.,
  Professor of Keltic Languages and Literature, Catholic University,
    WASHINGTON, D.C.
]

[Illustration:

  HON. EDWIN D. McGUINNESS,
  Ex-Secretary of State, Rhode Island; ex-Mayor of PROVIDENCE.
]

[Illustration:

  COL. JAMES ARMSTRONG,
  CHARLESTON, S. C.
]

[Illustration:

  COL. WILLIAM H. DONOVAN,
  LAWRENCE, MASS.
]

                      FOUR MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.




   THE IRISH PIONEERS AND FOUNDERS OF PETERBOROUGH, NEW HAMPSHIRE.[6]

                 BY JAMES F. BRENNAN, OF PETERBOROUGH.


 MR. TOASTMASTER, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:

My memory leads me back over a comparatively brief part of the time
covered by the recollections of the gray haired men and women who are
here present. I was born in this beautiful village; my first hallowed
recollections cluster here; its territory is familiar to me; I know its
people and something of its history, and wherever I go my mind reverts
with pride to this good old town.

It is with great pleasure that I accept the honor of responding to this
toast, and in what I have to say shall not refer to the comparatively
modern generation of Irishmen—Murphy, Brennan, Hamill, Noone, and scores
of others—and their descendants, who have helped to build up this town,
and whose history should be left for a résumé of fifty years hence, but
to those early settlers who came across the ocean, and their
descendants; men who risked all, even life itself, to make this spot a
fit place for the abode of man.

They were composed in a very small part of Scotchmen, Englishmen and
other nationalities, but the essential part of the pioneers of our town,
in fact nearly all of them, were Irishmen, for I assume that where men
were born in Ireland, as they were, where many of their fathers,
perhaps, also, some of their grandfathers were born, they were men who
can unqualifiedly be called Irishmen. Adopt any other standard and a
large part of the inhabitants of Ireland at the time they emigrated
would not be considered Irishmen, and probably few persons in this town
to-day would be considered Americans.

The Scotchmen who came to Ireland, and from whom some of the pioneers of
this town trace their ancestry, landed on that Emerald Isle, as our town
history records it, in 1610, more than a century and a quarter before
their descendants came to this country in 1736. These immigrant
descendants were indeed Irishmen to the manor born, with all the traits,
impulses and characteristics of that people, having, as the Rev. Dr.
Morison said in his centennial address, the “comic humor and pathos of
the Irish,” and to their severe character and habits “another comforter
came in, of Irish parentage; the long countenance became short, the
broad Irish humor began to rise,” etc. Need I ask the indulgence of my
hearers if I occupy a part of the time allotted me in naming some of
these men who were the founders of this town and the inaugurators of
civilization in this section?

Samuel Gordon and wife (Eleanor Mitchell) were born in the County
Tyrone, Ireland, as were also his father and mother; they are all buried
in the old cemetery on the hill. By marriage the blood intermixed with
Holden, Kimball, Barnes, Pierce, Cochran, Dickey, White, Brooks and
Hurd.

William Alld was born in Ireland in 1723, and was one of the early
settlers. The blood mixed by marriage with Swan, Metcalf, Worcester, Way
and Whitten.

John McKean was born in Ballymony, Ireland, in 1714, and was the
ancestor of all the McKeans in this section. His son James lived and
died on the David Blanchard place.

John Ferguson was born in Ireland in 1704, and came to this country with
the Smiths, Wilsons and Littles. The blood infused into Morison, Stuart,
Duncan, Miller, Moore, Evans and Whiting.

George Duncan was born in Ireland and was the ancestor of all of that
name in this section. Shortly after immigrating he married Mary Bell of
Ballymony, and their progeny married into the Taggart, Todd, Black,
McClellan, Moore, Wallace, Wells and Cummings families.

John Swan came from Ireland, and the family mixed by marriage with
Parker, Stuart, Gilchrest, Morse, Caldwell, Alld, Sawyer, Graham,
Chamberlain, Nay, Hoyt, Steele, Hannaford, Moore, Mitchell, Cutter and
White.

Joseph Turner and wife immigrated from Ireland with their sons Thomas,
Joseph and William, who were all born there. The blood by marriage went
into Wellman, Sanders, Shedd, Converse, Nichols, Goodhue, Nutting,
Taggart, Davis and Preston.

John Moore immigrated from Ireland in 1718, and is the ancestor of all
of the same name here. The blood mixed by marriage with Jewett, Priest,
Taggart, Woodward, Smith, Gregg, Dinsmore, Wood, Steele, Turner, Holmes,
Burnham, Jordan and Phelps.

Andrew Todd was born in Ireland in 1697, and married a daughter of John
Moore. Their progeny married with Morison, Miller, Taggart and Brown.

John Smiley, after his marriage, immigrated from Ireland. The blood by
marriage went into Miller, Hovey, Parker, McCoy, Wilson and Leonard.

Abial Sawyer was born in Ireland in 1721, where also his wife was born
in 1726. From them all of the name about here trace their origin,
intermixing by marriage with Gregg, Bailey, Scott, Farnsworth, Howard
and Nichols.

Matthew and James Templeton came from Ireland, and their blood
intermixed by marriage with Holmes, Miller, Robbe, Wilder and McCoy.

William Robbe, both of his wives, and seven children were all born in
Ireland, three generations of the family having lived there. From them
all of the name in town trace their origin. They mixed by marriage with
Taggart, Whittemore, Farnsworth, Mussey, White, Redding, Chapman,
Gowing, Livingston, Morrison, Moore, Follansbee and Swallow.

Thomas Steele was born in Ireland in 1694, and came here in 1718. The
blood mixed by marriage with Gregg, Mitchell, Wilson, Smith, Ramsey,
Swan, Senter, Willey and Rice. With another branch of the Steeles which
emigrated from Ireland was the father of the late John H. Steele,
governor of our state in 1844–’45.

William Wilson immigrated from County Tyrone, Ireland, in 1737, with his
wife, daughter and son Robert, who was born in that county, and
commanded a party of men organized to go to Lexington, armed, as our
town history says, with guns, pitchforks and shillelahs. The blood by
marriage went into Swan, Steele, Johnson, Hunter, Lee, Gibbon, Scott,
Jackson, Sherwood, Fisk and Taintor.

Thomas Davidson immigrated from Ireland with his brother John Davidson
and Matthew Wright. By marriage the blood went into Patrick, Hoar,
Dodge, Clark, Cutter and Nichols.

Thomas Cunningham was a native of Ireland. The blood mixed by marriage
with Robbe, McKean, Treadwell, Hale, Goodhue, Jackson, Caldwell, Porter
and Bishop.

John Wallace came to Londonderry from County Antrim, Ireland, in 1719,
and was the ancestor of the name here. The blood is mixed with Mitchell,
Noone and Spline.

James Gregg emigrated from Ireland to Londonderry in 1718, and was the
ancestor of all of the name in this section. The family intermixed with
Steele, Gibbs, Hutchins, Nelson, Macy and Wright.

William McNee, born in Ireland in 1711, was one of the settlers of the
town. Before he came to this country he married Mary E. Brownley, by
whom he had all his children. His descendants have now reached the
eighth generation, but unfortunately the name is entirely lost. The
first and second generations retained the name, but the third changed it
to Nay. They intermixed with Cunningham, Taggart, Millikin, Swan, Upton,
Weston, Davidson, Turner, Miller, Gilbert, Frost, Buss, Wood, Felt,
Cross, Porter, Jaquith, Vose, Adams, Young, Balch, Perkins and Hapgood.

Nathaniel Holmes (the ancestor of our able orator[7] here to-day and of
all of the name in this section) was born in Coleraine, Ireland, as was
also his father. Thus we have three generations of this family which
lived in Ireland. He was an early settler and by marriage the blood
mixed with Whittemore, Adams, Clement, Swasey, Leach, Kimball, Dickey,
Hall, Griffin, Gregg, Miller, Aiken, Bruce, Sewall, Smith, Newton and
Livingston.

There were two distinct families of Millers in town, remotely related;
the ancestors of both, however, came from Ireland. Back to these people
our president of this day[8] and all of the name hereabouts trace their
ancestry. They intermarried with Patterson, Burns, Campbell, Vickery,
Johnson, Mead, Shipman, Templeton, McFarland, White, Duncan, Davis,
Ropes, Wilkins, Phelps, McCoy, Thompson, Cunningham, Taggart, Gowing,
Clark, Gregg, Holt, Sanderson, Wilder and Scott.

All the Whites in town, including the marshal of this day,[9] are
descendants of Patrick White, who was born in Ireland in 1710. By
marriage they intermixed with Stuart, Shearer, Gregg, Upton, Cram,
Stearns, Carley, Parker, Grant, Dennis, Goodwin, Farmer, Perry, Swan,
Pierce, Fisk, Washburn, Whittemore, Shattuck, Leighton, Burns, Alld,
Grimes, Loring, Holmes, Mitchell, Scott, Cunningham, Lakin, Spafford,
Longley, Kyes and Tenney.

Samuel Morison and wife emigrated from Ireland, leaving their parents,
but taking with them eight children, who were all born there. From them
descended all that family in this section who spell their name with one
r, including our poet of to-day,[10] and the venerable gentleman[11]
whom we are proud to have with us here, who delivered the oration at our
centennial fifty years ago. By marriage their blood went into the
following named families: Steele, Mack, Knight, Johnson, Bassett,
Williams, Mitchell, Smith, Moore, Todd, Wallace, Hale, Graham, Felt,
Wilcox, Holmes, Buxton and Wells.

James Smith, the progenitor of all the Smiths in this section, was from
Ireland. His son Robert was born in Moneymore, Ireland, and with his
four children, John, Sarah, Mary and William, all born near Lough Neagh,
came to this country in 1736. Thus we find that three generations of
this family were from Ireland. Dr. Smith, the historian of our town, was
a descendant of this family. By marriage the blood went into Bell,
McNee, Morison, White, Annan, Dunshee, Fletcher, Smiley, Burns,
McCrillis, Emery, Findley, Pierce, Russell, Barker, Fifield, Cavender,
Walker, Gordon, Fox, Foster, Reynolds, Kilbourne, Jones, Leonard,
Blanchard, Lewis, Cheney and Dearborn.

William Scott immigrated in 1736 from Coleraine, Ireland, where all his
children were born, among them William, who settled here the same year.
This man and his father were Irish, as was also Alexander Scott,
progenitor of another branch which settled here and immigrated at the
same time. From these families sprang every person of the name in town,
among them our efficient toastmaster,[12] and by marriage the blood has
mingled with Cochran, Robbe, Wills, Maxfield, Cummings, Ramsey, Whitney,
Lincoln, Loomis, Gray, Bullard, Jewett, Fuller, Bowers, Orr, Allyn,
Blanchard, Clark and Ramsdell.

This is only a partial list of the Irishmen who were the founders and
builders of Peterborough—which may be completed at some future time. It
could be extended considerably, but sufficient names are here given to
show the nationality of the men to whom this town owes its existence.
All the brief facts here given are taken from the history of this town
and that of Londonderry, N. H.

Thus we see that there are comparatively few persons in town to-day,
with the exception of recent comers, who have not coursing in their
veins the blood of those sturdy Irishmen who made this town what it is,
whose bodies have long since returned to clay in the old cemetery on the
hill, and whose history is the history of the town itself. Long may
their memory be cherished! Long may the pride which exists in such
ancestry be retained! They were brave, honest, manly men, who broke down
the barriers that civilization might enter. Their lot was a life of
hardship; it is ours to enjoy the fruits of their work.

Not only the privations of this cold, uninviting country were theirs to
suffer, but intolerance and bigotry met them at the threshold of the
country to which they were about to bring a blessing. Rev. Dr. Morison,
in his centennial address, said that when the Smiths, Wilsons, Littles
and others arrived, “It was noised about that a pack of Irishmen had
landed.” They were denied even lodgings. Mr. Winship of Lexington, who
extended a welcome to them, however, said, “If this house reached from
here to Charlestown, and I could find such Irish as these, I would have
it filled up with Irish, and none but Irish.”

If there is a town or city in this broad land owing a greater debt of
gratitude to that green isle over the sea than does this town, I know it
not. If there is a place which should extend more earnest and loving
sympathy to Ireland in her struggles, I know not where it is. It was
there that your forefathers and mine were born; there where their infant
feet were directed; there where they were educated in those grand
principles of honesty, sturdy manhood and bravery well fitting them to
become the pioneers of any country, and fortunate it was for that land
toward which they turned their faces.

Here they built their log cabins and shrines to worship God, and reared
families of from eight to sixteen children, for they were people among
whom large families were popular, and the more modern aversion to a
large number of children had not taken possession of those God-fearing
men and women. Happy it was that the duty of populating this country was
theirs, and not that of the present generation, whose disposition to do
this might be doubted. Dr. Smith writes in our town history: “Of the
large and influential families of Todd, Templeton, Swan, Alld, Stuart,
Cunningham, Mitchell, Ritchie, Ferguson and many more, not a single
individual of their family remains in town; and of the large families of
Steele, Robbe, Smith, Morison, Moore and Holmes, their numbers are
greatly lessened, and they are growing less every year.”

In reviewing the character of these men, we should not, as a first
essential, go into an inquiry of how they worshipped God; or what were
their religious or political beliefs; whether Protestant or Catholic,
Whig or Tory. We only ask were they honest men, holding fast to those
principles which they believed right? The answer to this will not bring
the blush of shame upon our cheek, nor the consciousness of regret that
their blood is part and parcel of our bodies. If we follow in their
footsteps in our dealings with men; if we are as honest and courageous
as they; if we do an equal share to make the world better and more
attractive to future generations, we can, when the toil of this life is
over, rest in the secure belief of duty well done.




          SKETCH OF AN EARLY IRISH SETTLEMENT IN RHODE ISLAND.

              BY THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY, WOONSOCKET, R. I.


Among the old-time, honored names in Rhode Island is that of Dorrance.
It has figured prominently for a long period. About 1715–1720, George
Dorrance and his two sons—George and James—came from Ireland to the
colony and settled in what is now the town of Foster. They bought a
large tract of land which subsequently became known as the Dorrance
Purchase.

This tract was at that time supposed by some to be within the
jurisdiction of Connecticut. When, however, the boundary between Rhode
Island and Connecticut was finally settled, the Dorrance Purchase was
decided to be a part of Rhode Island. The controversy had lasted
sixty-five years and was not definitely adjusted until 1728.

The territory thus acquired by Rhode Island was commonly known as Head
Lots and included, as has been stated, the great Dorrance property.
Later, it was comprised in the town of Scituate, R. I., and when, in
1781, Foster was set apart from Scituate, the Dorrance Purchase was
comprised in the boundaries of the new town thus created.

Soon after their arrival from the old country, the Dorrances, with true
Irish enterprise, erected a sawmill at a stream on their estate. This
stream was called Quandock brook. Here they sawed lumber for building
purposes for themselves, and also for their neighbors. Subsequently, a
grist mill was added, and the locality became widely known as the
Dorrance Mills.

The elder George Dorrance from Ireland, was born in 1675. He died at his
home on the Purchase in 1754, at the age of seventy-nine years, and was
buried on the “Plains,” near Oneco, Conn.

His son, Captain George, also from Ireland, settled on the northern part
of the Purchase, on the road going west by “Tyler’s store” into
Connecticut. This was later named the Brooklyn road. Captain George
obtained his military title for valuable services rendered. He passed
away in 1793, and was buried with his father. He left two sons, George
and Alexander, and some say a third, named John.

James Dorrance, the other son of the elder George from Ireland, located
in the central portion of the Dorrance Purchase and built a substantial
dwelling. It fronted south and comprised two stories. In the centre of
the house was a huge stone chimney, measuring 10 × 18 feet. In each room
was a large, old-fashioned fireplace. In the great east room downstairs
was one ten feet wide and six feet high, constructed on the same plan as
many in Ireland. There was a large oven in the back. Those were the days
of the spinning-wheel, and of blazing logs whose flame mounted up the
great chimney and shed light over the family group after nightfall.

They were a sturdy race—the Dorrances—and worthy representatives of
Irish pluck, energy and progressiveness. This James was one of the sons
who came from Ireland. He died in 1779, while our Revolution was still
in progress, at the venerable age of ninety-six years, a good instance
of Irish longevity. He was buried with his father and brother, and was
sincerely mourned by all the country roundabout. He left two sons, James
and Michael Dorrance.

The third George Dorrance, or grandson of the first George, the
immigrant, had extensive military experience, and was known as Major
Dorrance. He erected a house near the old homestead. It was two stories
high in front and one in the rear, with a “lean-to” roof. Like the other
house just mentioned, it had an enormous stone chimney. Major Dorrance
died in 1827 or 1828, aged seventy-seven years. He left considerable
property, but no children.

The most eminent member of this famous Dorrance family was John, who was
born about 1747. He entered Rhode Island college, now Brown university,
and was graduated in 1774. On that occasion he delivered an oration on
“The Necessity and Advantages of Cultivating our Own Language.” He also
participated in a syllogistic dispute in Latin, taking the affirmative
on the question: “Should the Dictates of Conscience Always be Obeyed?”

He was twice married. His first wife was Polly Whitman, daughter of
Jacob Whitman of Providence, who owned the “Turk’s Head” property. His
second wife was Mrs. Amy Clark, widow of Dr. John Clark and daughter of
Commodore Esek Hopkins. John Dorrance had previously removed from Foster
to Providence and lived at the corner of Westminster and Exchange
streets, where the National Exchange bank was afterwards located. He
studied law and in 1794 was elected judge of the Court of Common Pleas
for Providence county. This eminent position he also filled by annual
election until 1801. He was then defeated. The defeat was owing to the
bitter opposition of Gov. Arthur Fenner, which arose over a lawsuit
between the two.

Judge Dorrance was likewise a member of the General Assembly for several
terms. In 1789 he was an assistant (senator) to Gov. John Collins, and,
with George Sears, was appointed by the Assembly a committee to audit
the accounts of “the late intendants of trade for the ports of Newport
and Providence.” In 1790 his name appears as a member of the Providence
Society for the Abolition of Slavery. The _Rhode Island American_, Jan.
8, 1811, notes his election as a director of the Exchange bank of
Providence. In 1792 or 1794 he was a candidate for congress and received
a flattering vote.

Speaking of Judge Dorrance, Dr. Pardon Bowen declared that “he possessed
an adequate law knowledge and was a man of the strictest integrity.” The
judge died June 29, 1813. That excellent authority, the _Providence
Gazette_, in its issue of July 3, the same year, had a notice of his
death, and after stating that “the Honourable John Dorrance” had
departed this life, it went on to say: “Judge Dorrance was descended
from Irish parentage, but was himself born in Foster, in this state. He
received a degree from Rhode Island college, and afterwards became a
tutor and since a member of the corporation of that institution.”

Continuing, it states that he was of unblemished integrity and
undeviating patriotism; that for many years he was a member of the state
legislature from Providence, “both in the senate and as a
representative.” It likewise chronicled the fact that for the last
sixteen years of his life, the citizens of the town (Providence),
manifested their confidence in him by making and continuing him
president of the town council.

The obituary notice referred to thus concludes: “His intimate knowledge
of the science of jurisprudence made him the adviser of all who were in
distress. His life was marked by an honesty that neither power nor
wealth could swerve from its duty.”

Judge Dorrance’s death was deeply regretted throughout the state. He
left a widow and “a large train of relatives.” The deceased was
prominent all through the Revolution, and by his patriotic activity
rendered incalculable service to the cause of liberty.

There was also a Samuel in the Dorrance family at an early period. His
name is found in the records in 1734. At the period of the Revolution,
the records, 1775, show that George Dorrance, probably a grandson of the
senior Irish immigrant, was ensign in the lieutenant-colonel’s company
of the regiment of Providence. In 1780, a George Dorrance was appointed
lieutenant of the second company of Scituate. In 1781, George Dorrance,
Jr., was captain in a Scituate company. The same year Capt. George
Dorrance had a company in a regiment raised by act of the General
Assembly. In 1782, George Dorrance, Jr., was commissioned major of the
Third regiment of militia in the county of Providence. There is not much
doubt but that in all the operations throughout Rhode Island during the
Revolution, these and other members of the Dorrance family took an
active part.

Alexander, another grandson of the senior Dorrance from Ireland, settled
in the northerly section of the Dorrance Purchase on the road running
through the centre of Head Lots and at right angles with the Brooklyn
road. He died in 1840 leaving two sons, Palmer and Frink. Palmer
Dorrance was born at the old homestead in Foster in 1804. He embarked in
business at an early age, went to New York, and engaged in the rubber
trade with Erastus Corning, his brother-in-law.

In 1831 he located in Providence and engaged in the boot and shoe
business on Weybosset street, nearly opposite the present post-office.
In 1833 he returned to Foster, his native town, and was in business
there until 1839, when he removed to the northerly part of Foster,
bought the Colonel Hopkins property and conducted a tavern and store for
several years. In 1847 he removed to Apponaug, R. I., and was in the
hotel business there, and at Natick and Buttonwoods, until 1854. At the
time of his death, 1873, he was engaged again in Providence.

The second James Dorrance, grandson of the first George from Ireland,
was born in 1762, and resided on the homestead in Foster until his
death, at the age of seventy-one years. He had a son, Abram, who passed
away in 1859, leaving no heirs. He used to say there was “stone enough
in the old chimney to wall in the farm.”

Michael Dorrance, a son of the first James, who immigrated with his
father from Ireland, was a native of Foster, and erected a substantial
dwelling on the southerly part of the Purchase. He left two sons, George
and James. The former became a man of much prominence, and was
commissioned as captain in 1834. Michael, the father, passed from earth
in 1874, being then seventy-three years of age. Michael’s father-in-law,
Mr. Placet, was town treasurer of Foster from 1810 to 1828, and later
represented the town in the General Assembly. For many years he was
cashier of the Mount Vernon National bank, and was also in charge of the
Mount Vernon post-office. He died at Foster in 1849.

In the preparation of this article, I have received much material from
Casey B. Tyler, who is well acquainted with the history of the
Dorrances, and is likewise excellently posted on that of many other
prominent Rhode Island families. Mr. Tyler also sent me the following
interesting facts relating to the subject of this sketch:

“I have had in my possession,” he says, “a pane of glass which Susanna
[Dorrance] Wells presented me many years ago, which she said came from
the old country [Ireland], and was originally set in a lead sash and
brought from Ireland by her great-great-grandfather, George Dorrance,
and used in the same old house for many years, until replaced by a wood
sash and a 6 × 8 glass. This old pane of glass is yellowish and coarse
and in diamond shape, and measures four inches on each side. She also
said that she kept a part of the sash for a long time, but the boys used
it up making shot and bullets to hunt with. This Susanna Dorrance was
born in 1799, and married Jeremiah Wells, son of Benjamin Wells at
Foster, and lived to a good old age, a very intelligent and
highly-esteemed woman.

“Maj. George Dorrance, who lived in the other old house, and who died in
1827, aged seventy-seven years, without children, had many articles
which came from Ireland with his ancestors. They were sold at auction in
1833 by Palmer Dorrance, one of the heirs-at-law. Among the rest was an
old-fashioned solid mahogany double-bureau, which was purchased by John
Tyler of ‘Tyler’s store,’ who had the old brass trimmings taken off, and
had it made into two nice bureaus with more fashionable trimmings.

“One of these bureaus was later owned by his granddaughter, Matilda
Rathbun, in Mossup Valley, and highly prized. The other came into
possession of his grandson, Albert Tyler, near the Centreville, R. I.,
depot. These two bureaus were altered by Israel Lyon in 1833, while he
carried on the carriage business in the basement of the house in Foster,
where his brother, Hon. Sheldon P. Lyon, lived and died.

“An old-fashioned silver tankard, holding two quarts, with a cover like
a Brittania teapot cover, was sold at the same time, and it was a
well-known fact that Major Dorrance, when first born, was very small,
and was put into that tankard, and the cover shut down, although he was
a man afterwards six feet two inches in height. John Tyler always
regretted not buying the tankard.”

The Dorrance mills remained in the Dorrance family down to 1808. During
the next few years the mills changed hands several times. In 1813 they
were sold to Peleg Place, whose daughters married Dorrances. Mr. Place
occupied the mill property until 1824, the balance of the estate, or
most of it, still remaining in the Dorrance family.

In 1824 Mr. Place sold the mills to Stephen Potter, who put up another
building, introduced “water looms,” and made cotton cloth for several
years.

George Dorrance and Phebe (Place) Dorrance left several sons. One of
them was named Thomas G., and another Albert L. The latter became an
influential farmer on the homestead inherited from his grandfather. He
died, leaving a widow and two daughters.

The Dorrance name is still found in Rhode Island, and Dorrance street, a
leading thoroughfare in Providence, helps perpetuate it. Bearers of the
name, descendants of the immigrants, are likewise found, some of them in
Providence. The old dam at Dorrance mills was long since demolished. The
original dwellings have long been ruins, the great chimneys being the
last to go, but the history and the memories of the Dorrance Purchase
still form one of the charms of that section of the state.




                 AN EARLY IRISHMAN OF WATERBURY, CONN.

                  BY MARTIN SCULLY,[13] OF WATERBURY.


A good deal of research has been indulged in during the past ten or
fifteen years, with a view to ascertaining for a certainty the name of
the Irishman who first visited the territorial limits of Waterbury,
Conn.

So far the question seems to be an open one, the preference having been
ascribed to various persons by different writers. Half a dozen or more
of the old Irish settlers of the town who came here over half a century
ago and who have resided here continuously since, tell conflicting
stories in relation to this subject, and as they were the only source
from which much information on this matter could be obtained, the
question has never been fully decided, each naming a different person as
being the first to lead the way for his countrymen into this section of
the state.

I recently conceived the idea of making some investigation on this point
from sources other than those which have heretofore been brought into
use, with the result that I have succeeded in obtaining information in
relation to this issue, which will be of interest to future historians,
of the first Irish residents of this town, and cannot but help settle
the much disputed question on this point.

As nearly as data can at present be collected, the first known Irishman
to see this part of the country was Joseph Rourke, a soldier who served
in one of the companies attached to a regiment in command of General
Putnam in the Revolutionary War. He was with Putnam through most of his
campaigns and took such a liking to that dashing soldier that he refused
to serve under the command of any other captain. It was this fascination
which led him to follow Putnam to his home in Brooklyn, this state, and
he was seriously wounded in the retreat of the Revolutionary troops from
Horseneck to Stamford, Conn., in 1779.

During his service in the Revolutionary army Rourke met and formed the
acquaintance of a son of Gideon Hotchkiss, the great-great-grandfather
of Judge George H. Cowell of this city, and in 1784 he accompanied young
Hotchkiss to the family residence, then situated about three miles
southeast of Prospect Centre. Remaining here for about twelve or
thirteen years, he learned of the intended uprising in his native
country, which culminated in the rebellion of 1798, and left on the old
stage line for Derby, Conn., thence by way of the Sound for New York,
with a view of reaching the scene of the conflict in time to render what
service he could to the cause of the Irish patriot party. Whether he
reached the scene of operations and met the fate of many of his
countrymen who had dared throw down the gauge of battle to the enemies
of Ireland will never be known, but sufficient information has been
obtained to satisfy me that the story of his visit to these parts is
founded on fact.

Judge Cowell can tell many reminiscences of the man’s characteristics
which he often heard related by his maternal grandmother. “There is
nothing strange about this,” said Judge Cowell, when asked about the
matter; “everybody knows that the Irish people had been fleeing to all
parts of the world to shun the persecution to which they were subjected
at home for centuries prior to that time, and it is the most reasonable
thing in the world to believe that some of them should show up in these
parts. It is a well-established fact that there were a large number of
Irishmen in the Revolutionary War, not only in the rank and file, but as
captains and generals. Were not several of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence Irishmen?

“Joseph Rourke was not the only one of his race who came along here
after the close of the Revolutionary War, but he is the only one I have
a good recollection of hearing talked of when I was a boy. What made the
old people remember him so well was the fact that in addition to being a
brave soldier he was an excellent shoemaker and earned his living during
his stay here by going among the farmers, repairing and making new
footwear, and the handsomest footwear ever worn in this state by the
forefathers of many of the old American families of this section was put
up by Joseph Rourke.

“He was in the place,” continued the judge, “for a good many years, and
made a practice of leaving every year a couple of months before the
winter season, telling his friends that he wanted to reach New York in
time to attend divine service on Christmas day. In those days Christmas
was not the great religious festival in New England that it is to-day,
and the people were practically ignorant of the real meaning of the
tenets of the Catholic faith. Rourke never tried to deny his religion,
and it was a common thing for the farmers for miles around to gather at
the house where he was making a pair of boots and hear him tell of the
inhuman cruelties perpetrated on his countrymen on account of their
faith, and in my opinion he was the first man that told the old settlers
of this town the Catholic meaning of the word ‘Mass.’ After an absence
of a few months he was sure to return and remain until the following
Christmas, when he was off again. Finally he expressed a determination
to revisit the scenes of his early boyhood and use his genius in defence
of his native country, and that was the last the townspeople ever heard
of him.”

[Illustration:

  HON. FRANKLIN M. DANAHER,
  ALBANY, N. Y.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. THOMAS F. O’MALLEY,
  SOMERVILLE, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. JAMES P. BREE,
  NEW HAVEN, CONN.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. THOMAS J. LYNCH
  AUGUSTA, ME.
]

                      FOUR MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.




                    SOME IRISH SETTLERS IN VIRGINIA.

           BY HON. JOSEPH T. LAWLESS,[14] RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.


Perhaps the most distinguished man of Irish birth who identified himself
completely with Virginia, was Gen. Andrew Lewis, who was born in Ireland
about 1720, and came to Virginia with his parents in 1732. John Lewis,
the father, was the first white man who fixed his home in the mountains
of West Augusta.

Andrew Lewis served as a major in the regiment commanded by Washington
in the Ohio campaign of 1754 and 1755. He served with valor in the
French and Indian wars, and was highly regarded by Washington, at whose
suggestion he was appointed a brigadier-general in the Continental army.
Four of his brothers served in the Revolutionary War, one of them, Col.
Charles Lewis, being killed at Point Pleasant. No better evidence of the
value which Virginia placed on the services of this Irishman could be
wished than the fact that she has deemed his effigy worthy to stand for
all time beside the immortal group of Henry, Mason, Marshall, Nelson and
Jefferson, which surrounds the heroic equestrian statue of Washington in
the Capitol Square at Richmond. This celebrated work of Crawford’s is
pronounced by the critics to be one of the finest in the world.

Descendants of John Lewis, the father of Gen. Andrew Lewis, are numerous
in the state at this day. Some of them have been very distinguished men:
John F. Lewis, who died recently, was lieutenant-governor of Virginia,
and a senator of the United States. Lunsford L. Lewis, his half-brother,
was president of the supreme court of appeals of Virginia for twelve
years, retiring from that office a few years ago. Dr. Lewis Wheat is a
well-known practising physician of Richmond. Judge John Lewis Cochran,
whose mother was a great-granddaughter of John Lewis, father of Gen.
Andrew Lewis, and whose great-grandfather, with his wife, _née_ Susanna
Donnelly, came to America about 1742, was a gallant soldier in the
Confederate army, and a distinguished lawyer and judge. James C.
Cochran, brother to the foregoing, was a colonel of Confederate militia
in the late war. Henry King Cochran served as a surgeon in the
Confederate service throughout the war. William Lynn Cochran was a major
in the Confederate service, and a lawyer by profession. Howard Peyton
Cochran was a captain in the same service. It is claimed that there were
one hundred and five of the Lewis family in the service of the
Confederate states.

Another Irishman who came to Virginia and left his impress was John Daly
Burk, of Petersburg, Va. He was born in Ireland, and educated at Trinity
college, Dublin. Because of his political opinions and affiliations he
was compelled to leave the country (1797) while yet a student at
college. He first tried his fortune in Boston, and afterwards in New
York. But he received no encouragement. His love for Ireland and his
ardent democracy made against his success at the North, and he finally
came to Virginia. Here he became the friend of Jefferson and John
Randolph, both of whom encouraged the brilliant young refugee.

He was a lawyer, poet, dramatist and historian, and was undoubtedly one
of the most accomplished men in the state during his day. His history of
Virginia in four volumes was the first comprehensive history of the
state written, and is regarded as one of the best ever compiled. He also
wrote “A History of the Late War in Ireland,” with an account of the
United Irish Association, from the first meeting in Belfast, to the
landing of the French at Killala (8 vols., 1779, Philadelphia). Before
he completed the fourth volume of the history of Virginia he was killed
in a duel with a French gentleman at Campbell’s Bridge, Chesterfield
county, Virginia, on the 11th of April, 1808.

The Preston family in Virginia is a distinguished one. Its propositus
John Preston was born in Ireland, and came to Virginia in 1735. He
married Elizabeth Patton before coming to America. She was a sister of
Col. James Patton, also of Irish birth. The latter was killed in
Virginia by the Indians in 1753, leaving two daughters, from whom
descended John Floyd and John B. Floyd, governors of Virginia; Hon.
James D. Breckinridge of Louisville, Ky., and Col. Wm. P. Anderson of
the United States army.

John Preston left one son, William, and four daughters, from whom are
descended some of the most distinguished men in American history. Dr. R.
A. Brock in his “Virginia and Virginians” says, “Scarce another American
family has numbered as many prominent and honored representatives as
that of the yeoman-founded Preston, with its collateral lines and
alliances.” In support of this claim he continues: “It has furnished the
National government a vice-president [Hon. John Cabell Breckinridge],
has been represented in several of the executive departments and in both
branches of congress. It has given Virginia five governors—McDowell,
Campbell, Preston and the two Floyds—and to Kentucky, Missouri and
California, one each, in Governors Jacobs, B. Gratz Brown and Miller;
Thomas Hart Benton, John J. Crittenden, William C. and William Ballard
Preston, leading moulders of public sentiment; the Breckinridges, Dr.
Robert J. and William L., distinguished theologians of Kentucky;
Professors Holmes, Venable and Cabell, of the University of Virginia,
besides other distinguished educators.”

Nor is their battle-roll less glorious. It is claimed that more than a
thousand of this family and its connections served in the contending
armies during the late Civil War. Among the leaders were Generals Wade
Hampton, Albert Sydney Johnston, Joseph E. Johnston, John B. Floyd, John
C. Breckinridge and John S. and William Preston. When it is stated that
besides the names enumerated, the family is connected with those of
Baldwin, Blair, Bowyer, Brown, Buchanan, Bruce, Cabell, Carrington,
Christian, Cocke, Flournoy, Gamble, Garland, Gilmer, Gibson, Grattan,
Hart, Henry, Hughes, Howard, Lee, Lewis, Madison, Marshall, Mason,
Massie, Mayo, Parker, Payne, Peyton, Pleasants, Pope, Radford, Read,
Redd, Rives, Seddon, Sheffey, Taylor, Thompson, Trigg, Venable, Watkins,
Ward, Watts, Winston, Wickliff, among many others, as well-esteemed,
some idea may be formed of its mental characteristics and social
influence.

Judge Peter Lyons was born in Ireland, and came to Virginia in his early
life. He was made a judge of the general court in 1779, becoming also a
judge of the first court of appeals. He served as such until his death,
July 30, 1809. As a jurist he ranked high. Among his colleagues on the
bench were Chancellor Wythe, Edmund Pendleton, St. George Tucker and
Spencer Roane. His descendants for several generations were eminent in
the professions, and some of them are still living in Virginia. James
Lyons, Jr., who was a colonel on the staff of Governor O’Ferrall, is the
oldest male descendant in the direct line. He married a daughter of
William Wirt Henry, grandson of Patrick Henry, and by her has several
children living.

Another judge of the supreme court of appeals was William C. Burks, of
whose ancestors little is known except that they were Irish. He died
recently, mourned by the profession which he had so signally adorned by
the profundity of his juridical learning and the simplicity and
spotlessness of his life. His opinions are as highly regarded as those
of any man who sat upon the bench of that court within a half century.
He was of weak frame and never enjoyed good health—“a creaking door,”
was the expression he commonly used to indicate himself—and never held
public office other than that mentioned. Yet his capacity for labor was
truly remarkable. He was one of the early presidents of the Virginia Bar
Association, which he was largely instrumental in organizing; and until
the time of his death was one of the editors of the _Virginia Law
Register_, the organ of the profession in this state.

Perhaps the ablest Irish lawyer in the state was Thomas J. Michie, whose
reputation extended throughout Virginia as a brilliant wit as well as
able jurist. Among the judges of the present supreme court of appeals of
Virginia is John W. Riely, who was a major in the Confederate service,
and whose ancestors were Irish. The speaker of the House of Delegates,
session of 1897–8, was John F. Ryan. A late governor of Virginia was
Philip W. McKinney, of Irish descent. His successor was Charles T.
O’Ferrall, a man of Irish descent. Among the state officers of Irish
descent may be mentioned P. H. O’Bannon, public printer; John Bell
Bigger, clerk of the House of Delegates; Major B. W. Lynn,
superintendent of the penitentiary, and the writer (Secretary of State
Lawless), both of whose parents were born in Galway, and came to America
after the “black famine.”

Gen. William Mahone was a descendant of an Irish progenitor who settled
in Virginia in colonial days. Judge Anthony Kiely is of Irish lineage,
and you know his history. After his appointment as minister to Austria
by Mr. Cleveland, and the indication on the part of Francis Joseph that
he was at Vienna _persona non grata_, Mr. Kiely was made one of the
judges of the international court at Cairo, Egypt, and became its
president.

Dr. Hunter McGuire, who was medical director of Stonewall Jackson’s
corps and the intimate friend of that great soldier, is of Irish
lineage. His great-grandfather, Ed. McGuire, left Ordfest, County Kerry,
in 1756, and settled in Winchester, Va.

The Dooleys, Pattersons, Glennans, Kevills, Barrys, O’Connors,
Fitzgeralds, Keans, Rheas, Kendricks, Kellys, McChesneys, Goolricks,
Wards, Higgins, Doyles, Lawlers, Rafters, Ferriters, McKenneys,
McCrackens, Youngs, Coles, Macgills, O’Bannons, Irvings, Irwins, Nolans,
O’Sullivans, Sullivans, Walshs, O’Neills, Kanes, Murphys, Ryans and a
hundred others, came largely during the present century. Perhaps most of
these families left Ireland in the great exodus which followed the
famine of 1846–’47. Certainly Virginia received about that time the
greatest number of immigrants who, unfortunately for themselves and for
their race, have preferred for the most part to lead urban lives. But
they and their progeny have not failed to leave the impress of their
character upon the people among whom their lot was cast.

And it is not too much to say that in the years to come, when, in the
expiring hours of the twentieth century, some chronicler pauses to
consider the virtues and deeds of Virginians, he will dwell in loving
admiration upon the talents and traits of those of Irish blood, who have
already made bricks without straw, and won the confidence and esteem of
their neighbors.

They are a people whose genius under the ægis of the Constitution enjoys
here that freedom of thought and liberty of action which have been
denied their fathers for eight hundred years—who love the Republic and
its institutions next only to their God, and who read their own
happiness and the fulfilment of all their earthly hopes in the
increasing and enduring glory thereof.

Capt. Page McCarty, of Richmond, Va., writes: “I learned something of
Irish-Americans from the papers of my father, governor of Florida at one
time, and member of congress in 1839. The ‘Scotch-Irish’ appear to have
established a theory of pre-emption or monopoly, and of that I learned
but little. O’Brien, of General Washington’s staff, was from Alexandria,
Va. Colonels McClanahan and Andrew Wagoner and Maj. Richard McCarty, of
the Revolution, were descendants of a small group of Irishmen who named
the little town of Kinsale on the Potomac about 1662. Daniel McCarty,
speaker of the Virginia House of Burgesses 1715, was of this set of
people, and grandson of McCarty, of Clenclare, though I see that some of
his kin are trying to Scotch-Irish him also. The main immigration of
Irish was through Philadelphia and Charleston, S. C., and they
penetrated to the mountains with the most adventuresome pioneers and met
in the valley that extends from the Peaks of Otter to the headwaters of
the Tennessee river.”

[Illustration:

  MR. BERNARD CORR,
  BOSTON, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. EDMUND REARDON
  CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  HON. PAUL KENDRICKEN,
  BOSTON, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  POLICE CAPT. JOHN F. MURRAY,
  CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
]

                      FOUR MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.




          THE WHISTLERS—A FAMILY ILLUSTRIOUS IN WAR AND PEACE.

                     BY JOSEPH SMITH, LOWELL, MASS.


The following sketch of the Whistler family appeared originally in the
_Illustrated American_ of May 25, 1895, and is reproduced with some few
slight emendations, because it is germane to the work of the
American-Irish Historical Society. It was the intention of the writer to
make a brief sketch of the famous artist, whose birthplace was at that
time the subject of much amusing discussion, but he found the
antecedents of the artist such interesting personalities and their
history so romantic, that he amplified his first sketch into a brief
story of the family.

Major Whistler’s connection with the beginnings of Lowell, Mass., led
the writer further afield and gave him material that may at some future
time be added to the literature of the society. It is sufficient to say
here that this splendid seat of American industry—Lowell—was conceived,
founded, cradled and fostered by the grandson of an Irishman and the
husband of that grandson’s sister, Patrick Tracy Jackson and Francis E.
Lowell, from the latter of whom it received its name.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The French savant, Guèrinsen, may or may not have been scientifically
correct when he wrote, “Genius is a disease of the nerves;” but
certainly the eccentricities of genius point too frequently to neurotic
degenerations, to aberrations from the normal, and to symptoms that are
“conceived in spleen and born in madness.” Modern instances of this
truism are on every hand. There is that in James Abbot McNeill Whistler,
for instance, which marks him distinctly as standing among the
eccentrics of genius; and which, in his splenetic vagaries, shows him to
be hovering on the borderland of madness.

While his affectations in art, his “harmonies,” “symphonies” and
“arrangements” in blue and gold, and gray and green, and so on _ad
nauseam_, might seem to set him down among the Barnums of art, with the
poseurs of the æsthetic, Whistler’s work shows him to be a man of
undoubted genius, a most uncomfortable and irritating genius perhaps,
but still a genius whose brilliancy is flawed by his aggressive
ego-mania. When we have discounted all the theatrical “isms” in which he
frames his art, we are compelled to recognize the fact that he is an
artist whose work will live. No ordinary man, no merely artistic
charlatan, could make the impression on the age that Whistler has done.
Whistler is a writer of deliciously clever and disagreeable things; he
has a literary quality whose acidity has etched his personality on this
decade; he is a brilliant talker, overflowing with quirk and bon mot,
satire and repartee, alert and resourceful in the battle of wits, and he
is easily the central figure at the social functions he honors,
outshining all other lights, out-roaring other lions, a meteor among the
stars.

While English in his remote racial root, his forbears lived long enough
in Ulster to extract from the soil and atmosphere of Ireland that Celtic
wit and pugnacity, that brilliance and originality so characteristic of
the man. The transplantation of his immediate ancestors to American soil
added to the mental celerity and nervous alertness of his fiber, giving
to his personality that Gaelic flavor which the English-speaking races
acquire under our skies in sloughing off the heavy heritage of
insularity of the land of fogs.

Great talents are seldom transmitted from one generation to another, yet
certain characteristics which are physiological rather than
psychological, may mark the branches of a common family tree. Whistler
owes his intellectual qualities to his racial fiber, to his mixture of
blood and the changing environments of his ancestors; they are in fact
highly developed racial characteristics, while his artistic
instincts—raised in him to the plane of genius—are a family inheritance.
His wit, humor and mental dynamics he owes to his Irish fathers; his
merciless mockery, his acidulous aggressiveness, his satirical
sardonism, are the Calvinism of his Scottish strain run to seed and
sprouting in the soil of Bohemia: a sparkling champagne, which has been
spoiled with vinegar.

The son of a great father, standing in the glare of a great light, has
his own brilliance minimized and is deprived of that natural light and
shade so necessary to his artistic proportion. If he be great himself,
his contemporaries will institute comparisons that are ever odious,
unless their greatness be in different directions. On the other hand,
when the son is great his glory only adds to the aureole of the great
father.

Whistler’s father was a famous man in his day; but time has done for the
father what it has yet to do for the son—it has stilled the voices of
contemporary panegyric and detraction, it has estimated his true worth,
measured and ascertained his proportion and given him a definite
historical verdict.

A glance at Whistler’s antecedents will be of interest to all, for they
have added to the glory of the Republic and given it as loyal service as
any one family in its history.

The Whistler family is remotely of English origin, and it was Ralph, son
of Hugh Whistler of Goring, in Oxfordshire, who founded its Irish
branch, removing to Ulster as a tenant of one of those predacious London
guilds which exchanged its guineas for the broad acres which that
thrifty monarch, James Stuart, had despoiled from the O’Neills and
O’Donnells of Ulster.

The first Whistler on American soil was John, a scion of this Ulster
settler of the Plantation. While little that is definite is known of
this branch, the internal evidence forces us to conclude that it was one
of some social and political importance, for it was on terms of intimacy
with the landed proprietors of the province. The character of this John
indicates that whatever the religious and political opinions of the
Irish Whistlers may have been, they had grown on the soil to be Irish of
the Irish. John Whistler was a high-strung, bold, brave, devil-may-care
blade, who loved adventure and excitement and had the Irishman’s love of
a fight and a soldier’s life. While yet a mere boy he ran off from home,
enlisted in King George’s army and was hustled off in a transport to
America to aid in the work of subduing the rebellious colonies.

He reached Canada in season to march with the luckless Burgoyne and to
come to grief and captivity with his superior at Saratoga. He fell in
love with his captors and the country, and doubtless registered a vow
that he would make his home in America at some future period. In time he
was exchanged and sent back to England. He was poor, yet, with that
amusing contempt of poverty so characteristic of the Irish gentleman, he
aggravated his troubles by falling rapturously in love with the pretty
daughter of his father’s friend, Sir Edward Bishop. The maid was as
ardent and foolish as her lover, but the father looked askance at the
suit of the young soldier of fortune. The lovers solved the problem for
themselves in Irish fashion by running away, marrying and taking ship
for the rebellious colonies before the elders woke up. The young couple
landed at Baltimore with full hearts and empty pockets and settled down
at Hagerstown to begin the battle of life.

It is certain that fortune continued as unkind and capricious under
American skies as she had been under Irish ones, and we next hear of the
young husband bidding adieu to his young wife and child, and marching
with a musket on his shoulder, as a soldier of the United States, into
the wilderness of the West, under General St. Clair.

Fighting and soldiering in those days were done in rough and ready
fashion under conditions that called for courage and endurance, when
pluck and dash and personal prowess were the prime essentials of a
soldier; and in such a school an Irish daredevil like Whistler easily
made his mark. In that disastrous battle on the Miami in 1791, where the
forces of St. Clair were surprised and routed by the vengeful tribesmen
under Blue Jacket and the renegade, Simon Girty, young Whistler was
wounded, but his gallant conduct in the battle and on the retreat earned
him his shoulder-straps, and gave him a position that his birth,
breeding and education enabled him to fill with honor to himself and
credit to the republic. It gave him an assured position in the calling
he loved best, and for which his talents and taste fitted him.

As the years rolled by, he served in many a hard-fought campaign against
the enemies of his adopted country, earning promotion and fighting the
soldiers of King George with as much enthusiasm as in other days he had
served that fat-witted monarch. His devoted wife followed his fortune,
traveling in the military train, and living at lonely frontier forts
with as much content as she would had fortune strewn their paths with
brighter flowers. This heroic woman had much to do in forming the
character of the children born to their marriage, and her brave and
gentle personality made a lasting impression on them. The Whistlers were
good fighting stock, and when his sturdy boys were old enough, the
fighting old major placed a sword in their hands and gave them to the
land he loved, and true, loyal soldiers they were in every emergency.
When age, disease and wounds stiffened the old warrior, and rendered him
unfit for active service in the field, the government appointed him
storekeeper at the military post at Newport, Ky., and later transferred
him to Jefferson Barracks, near St. Louis, Mo., where he died in 1829,
at the age of seventy-three.

The splendid old soldier had served the land of his adoption bravely,
faithfully and loyally, and, dying, he bequeathed to his sons an
unsullied reputation, and to the republic children who never failed her
in the hour of need.

William Whistler, the major’s first-born, first saw the light of day in
1780 at Hagerstown, Md., and grew up with drums for his music and swords
for his toys, and became a lieutenant in the army in 1801. He fought
against Indians and British on the frontier with gallantry, and was
badly wounded at the battle of Maguaga, Mich., in the year 1812. He
passed through the various grades, fought in nearly every war the army
was engaged in, and was retired with the rank of colonel of the Fourth
United States infantry in 1861. Next to Gen. Winfield Scott, William
Whistler was then the oldest soldier in the American army. William’s
son, Joseph Nelson Garland Whistler, was, like his father, a soldier. He
was graduated from the West Point Military Academy in 1846, served with
distinction in the Mexican War and the Rebellion, and was colonel of the
Fifteenth United States infantry, when he was placed on the retired list
in 1886.

George Washington Whistler, the father of the artist and writer of “the
gentle art of making enemies,” was the second son of Maj. John Whistler.
He was born on the ragged edge of civilization, in the shabby frontier
post of Fort Wayne, in the territory of Indiana, on May 19, 1800. He
traveled up and down the rough trails of the Western wilderness with his
father’s regiment, receiving what education he could from his mother
until he was sent, while yet a boy, to West Point. He had a
well-developed talent for draughtsmanship, and was a man of refined and
artistic tastes; he was a charming companion, and withal a handsome,
soldierly gentleman. One of the brightest men ever turned out of West
Point, he was graduated high in his class, and commissioned as a second
lieutenant in the United States artillery corps; but his engineering
talents were utilized by the government in topographical surveys while
in the service, except for the brief period when he was an assistant
professor at the academy. One of the burning questions of those days of
the early twenties was the frontier between the republic and the British
dominions, our government claiming much that is still a fishing and
hunting-ground in the province of New Brunswick; John Bull, with
unerring instinct, seeking to push his lines south to include the
country that has blossomed into the commonwealths of Iowa, Minnesota and
the Dakotas.

From 1822 to 1826 the young lieutenant was engaged in tracing and
defining the boundary in the terrible wilderness that stretches from
Lake Superior west to the Lake of the Woods, enduring cold, hunger and
incredible hardships, and laying the seeds of disease that was to cut
him off in the prime of manhood and the zenith of his success. When he
came back to civilization from these arduous duties, he found the
country agog with railroad excitement, caused by the work of the
Stephensons in England. American capitalists were eager to build
railroads, but they realized that the radically different conditions of
the two countries necessitated essentially different systems of
construction and operation.

Needing the best engineering skill in the country, they applied to the
government, and Whistler was, with others, detailed to survey the
routes, report on systems and supervise construction of the roads. He
was engaged in this responsible work for years, but, knowing that such
talents as his—and he was recognized as one of the ablest engineers in
the country—found but slender rewards in the service of the republic,
and were better appreciated in civil life, he resigned his commission in
December, 1833. His services were secured at once by the railroads, and
he was sent with Jonathan Knight, William Gibbs McNeill and Ross Winans
to England to examine the system there, and returning he occupied
himself with the affairs of the Baltimore & Ohio and Boston & Albany
railroads.

It is not too much to say that, practically, George Washington Whistler
laid down the lines upon which the American railroad system was built,
and along which it has grown to be the most splendid and advanced in the
world, the most potent agency in the progress and civilization of the
republic.

In 1834 Whistler became the engineer of the proprietors of the Locks and
Canals of Lowell, Mass., the corporation whose wisdom and shrewdness
have been instrumental in changing the fields and pastures along the
slopes of the Merrimack into the foremost and most prosperous
manufacturing city devoted to textile industries on this continent.
Besides looking keenly after their strictly local interests, he spent
months in the corporation’s machine shops, drawing plans, evolving
inventions and improvements and supervising the construction and
remodeling of a Stephenson locomotive, in order to adapt it to the needs
and peculiar requirements of American railroads. Those most familiar
with railroads and their history in this country are best equipped to
appreciate the work done in that little machine shop by Whistler and to
understand its value.

Whistler lived in Lowell from 1834 to 1837, in a modest house on Worthen
street, and there his famous son, James Abbot McNeill Whistler, was
born, probably in 1834. The parish records of the old Episcopal church
of St. Anne state “James Abbot Whistler, son of George W. and Anna M.
Whistler,” was baptized there Nov. 9, 1834, by him who was long and
reverently known to the people of Lowell as Father Edson. This is the
artist who is alleged to have been born in Baltimore and Stonington, and
who himself rather oddly claims Moscow in Russia as his birthplace; but
this is the record, given under the signature of the present rector, the
Rev. A. St. John. Chambre of Lowell.

In 1837, Mr. Whistler left Lowell for Stonington, Conn., where he took
charge of the affairs of the Stonington railroad, and three years later
he removed to Springfield, Mass., to take up the duties of chief
engineer of the Boston & Albany road. His reputation had grown apace
with his work and achievements and it was now thoroughly established as
that of a wise, prudent, skilful engineer, masterful and resourceful in
all emergencies. He had been engaged on the most difficult and puzzling
engineering problems of the day and had successfully overcome them. His
fame was commensurate with his success; he was patient, industrious,
ingenious, bold, sagacious, tenacious and incorruptibly honest; he had
the confidence, trust and affection of those with whom he labored, and
his manly, scholarly, soldierly and tactful personality brought him a
wide and well-earned esteem.

It was at this time that the Emperor Nicholas of Russia sent a
commission of officers to the United States to study the American
railroad system, with a view of introducing it into the empire if better
adapted to its needs than the English system, which they had already
investigated. Colonels Menlikoff and Krofft not only reported
emphatically in favor of the American system, but spoke in terms of
highest admiration of the impression made on them by the ability and
courtesy of Whistler. The emperor made up his mind that Whistler was the
one man to introduce the railroad system into Russia, and he made a
flattering offer for his services, among many other inducements being
that of an annual salary of $12,000. Major Whistler accepted the offer
of the emperor and sailed for St. Petersburg in 1842, in company with
Major Boultattz of the Russian Engineer Corps, who had been sent to
escort him to Russia.

An extraordinary task lay before Whistler in Russia, and one that might
have made an ordinary man hesitate. The route had to be surveyed for the
contemplated road between Moscow and St. Petersburg, the road-bed had to
be constructed, the tracks laid, bridges, stations and engine-houses
designed and built, gauges considered and decided upon, machine shops
constructed, mechanics trained, locomotives and rolling-stock planned
and built, and, in fact, every detail of the immense undertaking had to
be deliberated over, thought out and carried to completion under this
one man’s supervision. It was an herculean task that his marvelous
executive capacity was to meet and conquer.

The jealousies of officials, suspicious of a foreigner and imperial
favorite, the impediments thrown in his way by a corrupt officialdom,
the delays of the bureaus, the greed of contractors, the importunities
of inventors and the solicitations of a horde of corrupt harpies that
gather round such an enterprise, had to be reckoned with; and these he
did with consummate skill and tact, taxing the resources of his urbane
but firm diplomacy and exhausting the vitality of his physical being. He
overcame all obstacles, he earned the respect, admiration and affection
of his Russian associates, he smoothed the friction of bureaus and
officials, he made the fortune of his American associate, Winans, and
others, he obtained the sincere regard and respect of the autocrat of
the empire and was content to remain a poor man and an honest man. His
monument was the finest and best-equipped railroad on the continent of
Europe. The Emperor Nicholas, anxious to show his admiration and esteem
for the American, urged him in vain to accept a high commission in the
Russian army, but he refused everything, contenting himself with the
decoration of the Order of St. Anne.

But Whistler’s work was nearly done; he had worked too hard and too
faithfully. Beside his railroad work he planned many important
improvements in the fortifications at Cronstadt, which balked the
British under Napier a few years later; he made useful and needed
changes in the naval school and docks at St. Petersburg, and planned
many other public works. In November, 1848, he had an attack of Asiatic
cholera, which precipitated upon his already exhausted system a
complication of diseases, and he lingered along until April, 1849, when
he died in the Russian capital in his 49th year.

Posthumous honors were paid the distinguished dead by the emperor;
Whistler’s family were treated with great kindness and consideration by
the government, and it was ordered that no changes of any nature would
be permitted in completing the great railroad enterprise he had created.

Major Whistler’s first wife was Mary, daughter of Dr. Foster Smith of
the United States army, who fell in love with him as a cadet at the
academy where her father was stationed. The son by this marriage, George
William Whistler, followed in his father’s footsteps and became a famous
railroad engineer. His second wife was Anna Matilda McNeill, a daughter
of Dr. C. D. McNeill of Wilmington, N. C., and a sister of William Gibbs
McNeill, his friend and associate. She was the mother of the artist,
James Abbot McNeill Whistler.

Major Whistler’s body was carried to America and deposited in St. Paul’s
church, Boston, but it was subsequently buried at Stonington, the place
of all places that this wanderer loved best and which he called home. A
beautiful monument stands in Twilight Dell, in Greenwood cemetery,
erected to his memory by the Society of American Engineers, which bears
upon it this inscription:

“In memory of George Washington Whistler, Civil Engineer. Born at Fort
Wayne, Indiana, May, 1800. Died at St. Petersburg, Russia, April, 1849.
Educated at the U. S. Military Academy. He retired from the army in 1833
and became associated with William Gibbs McNeill. They were, in their
time, acknowledged to be at the head of their profession in this
country. He was distinguished for theoretical and practical ability,
coupled with sound judgment and great integrity. In 1842 he was invited
to Russia by the Emperor Nicholas, and died there while constructing the
St. Petersburg & Moscow Railroad. This cenotaph is a memorial of the
esteem and affection of his friends and companions.”

It can well be said that Whistler, the artist, has come honestly and
honorably by his brilliant gifts, and it can be stated with equal
emphasis that the Genesis of a Genius is seldom as great and worthy.




         DAVID HAMILTON, A SOLDIER OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

               BY DANIEL M. O’DRISCOLL, CHARLESTON, S. C.


David Hamilton was born in Cork, Ireland, in November, 1749. He came to
Charleston, S. C., when quite young. He was well educated, a man of
property, and about 1774 wedded Elizabeth Reynolds. She was a daughter
of Rev. James Reynolds, an Irish Presbyterian clergyman of James Island,
S. C., and of his wife, Mary Ball, a native of that island. James Island
was then as now the site of many large plantations.

After a siege of many months, General Lincoln, who with a small number
of troops had gallantly defended the city of Charleston, surrendered May
19, 1780. The British had thought that on account of the scattered
population and the number of slaves, it would be easier to subjugate the
inhabitants of the Southern states than those of the Northern and
Middle, whose hardy population inured to labor, especially among the
mountains of Vermont and New Hampshire, had successfully resisted all
efforts to overcome them. But in this they were mistaken, for although
Savannah and Charleston, the chief cities of Georgia and South Carolina,
were now in the hands of the enemy, still from every brush and bracken,
Marion and Sumter and their scouts would spring at unexpected moments
and unlooked for times.

Among those who were taken prisoners at Charleston was David Hamilton,
the subject of this sketch. There is a tradition in the family that he
held the rank of lieutenant.[15] This point, however, cannot be
substantiated now, as the family papers and Bibles, which were in the
possession of his daughter, Mrs. Sullivan of Hampton county, S. C., were
lost or destroyed during the Civil War.

When the city of Charleston was surrendered to the British commander,
David Hamilton, being a member of a regiment taken under arms, became a
prisoner of war. He was offered with others a parole if he would promise
not to take up arms again against the mother country. This he declined
to avail himself of, and Ramsay’s History of the Revolution in South
Carolina records his name as among the prisoners confined on board the
prison ship _Torbay_ in Charleston harbor in May, 1781.

This vessel conveyed these prisoners to Philadelphia where they remained
until the treaty of peace was signed at Paris in 1783. Family records
tell that during his detention, receiving permission to go about the
city, his wife Elizabeth, at his solicitation, joined him there. The
voyage in those days was a long and tedious one, but David Hamilton
having vessels of his own, Mrs. Hamilton and her two children were able
to perform the journey in one of them.

During her sojourn there a third daughter, Grizelle Agnes Hamilton, was
born, who became in womanhood the wife of Capt. Joseph Taylor, U. S. N.
After the Revolutionary War, David Hamilton, on his return to
Charleston, became the partner in business of his brother-in-law,
Christopher Fitz Simons, who, also an Irishman of wealth and culture, is
the ancestor of the “Sir Rupert” of South Carolina, Wade Hampton, the
third, the brave cavalry leader of the Southern army in Virginia. They
carried on an extensive shipping, shipbuilding and wharfage business,
Hamilton owning the ships and Fitz Simons the wharves. David Hamilton
owned one hundred black men, slaves, with their families.

Mr. Fitz Simons was still wealthier, having $700,000, as his will still
on record shows, and when his daughter, Anne Fitz Simons, became the
wife of Wade Hampton the second, it was as no dowerless bride, she
receiving $100,000 as her portion. The father of Colonel Hampton was the
richest planter in the South, claiming to own 3,000 slaves. Christopher
Fitz Simons dying a few years before David Hamilton, his will records
that he leaves to David Hamilton £50 as a souvenir, according to the old
English custom, and that he desired the business to continue under the
firm name of Hamilton & Co.

David Hamilton died in Charleston, Nov. 29, 1794, and is buried in St.
Philip’s churchyard, the Colonial Episcopal church of that city. In
these sacred precincts also rest the ashes of many of his descendants.
David Hamilton left five daughters and three sons: Elizabeth, who became
Mrs. Pritchard; Anne, Mrs. Harvey; Catherine, Mrs. Pritchard; Grizelle
Agnes, Mrs. Taylor; Mary, Mrs. Sullivan; of his three sons, David, John
and William, David and William died unmarried. His married son, John,
left a son and two daughters, from one of whom (Mary), Mrs. Nesbit,
springs the family of the same name, wealthy planters of Georgetown, S.
C. Of David Hamilton’s daughters, Mrs. Pritchard’s descendants attained
distinction both in peace and war.

William Pritchard, her grandson, whose name is carved on the white
marble tablet which stands in the vestibule of St. Philip’s Episcopal
church, was a member of the historic Washington Light Infantry of
Charleston, and died of country fever during the Civil War. Mrs.
Harvey’s daughter, Anne, married Commandant Knight, U. S. N. Commandant
Knight died while in service on the coast of Africa, of African fever.
His remains still rest there. Mrs. Taylor’s grandson, William Joseph
Magill, commanded a regiment of Georgia regulars during the Civil War.
He was a graduate of the Military Academy of South Carolina, a man of
fine physique and pleasing address. Colonel Magill lost an arm at the
battle of Sharpsburg, and died some few years ago in Florida where he
had settled after the war.

Another grandson of Mrs. Taylor, Dr. James Ervin Godfrey, was educated
in Paris and became a surgeon in the Confederate army, with the rank of
major. He married in Madison, Ga., where he still resides, as do also
many of his descendants. The youngest daughter, Mary, married Timothy
Sullivan (O’Sullivan), a native of County Cork, Ireland, a merchant
whose name is mentioned as a broker on Vendue Range, Charleston, more
than eighty years ago. Mrs. Sullivan’s eldest daughter married Patrick
Cantwell (also an Irishman), an officer of the customs in Charleston.
Mr. Cantwell was a first cousin of Lieut. Stephen Cassin, one of the
heroes of the battle of Lake Champlain, and also a nephew of Commodore
John Cassin, U. S. N., who was commander of the naval forces at Norfolk
during the War of 1812, and at Charleston from 1821–’22, where he died
the latter year. His remains lie in St. Mary’s churchyard. Mr.
Cantwell’s eldest daughter, Mary, married Daniel O’Driscoll, of the
O’Driscolls of Baltimore, born at Cork, Ireland. Of their two sons, one
is a graduate of the College of Charleston, and has entered the
profession of teaching; the other, a student at the Military Academy of
South Carolina.

Among the surviving descendants of David Hamilton are the Godfreys of
Georgia, the Magills of Florida, the Harveys, Stroheckers, Pritchards,
Knoxes, Poppenheims, Milers, O’Driscolls, Langleys, Cantwells, Nesbits
and Morrisons of South Carolina, and a family of Prestons in Alabama. A
granddaughter, Mary Pritchard, married Dr. Barnard of New Haven, Conn.,
and her descendants still reside in that city.




       THE IRISH CHAPTER IN THE HISTORY OF BROWN UNIVERSITY.[16]

              BY THOMAS HAMILTON MURRAY, WOONSOCKET, R. I.


The founding of Brown University marks a pivotal era in the educational
history of Rhode Island. It is not the beginning of that history any
more than it is the ultimate conclusion thereof. For, before the
founding came the pioneers of education, the skirmish line, clearing the
underbrush, paving the way, opening the battle for the cause of
knowledge.

In the van, then, were the private teachers who received pupils into
their homes or taught them at their own firesides. Many of these
teachers in early Rhode Island history were talented Irishmen. Indeed,
Irish schoolmasters were numerous throughout all the colonies. In
reading the lives of the men of the Revolution, we are astonished at the
number receiving their education from these Irish teachers.

Of the Irish masters who taught in Rhode Island at an early period may
be mentioned Brown, MacSparran, Crocker, Knox, Kelly, Jackson, Phelan,
Reilly and others.

Rev. Dr. MacSparran was a leading Irish preacher and teacher whose
educational influence without doubt helped pave the way and render
desirable the founding of a Rhode Island college. His arrival in these
parts dates from about 1718, when he located in Bristol. Later, and for
a period of nearly forty years, he was pastor of St. Paul’s church in
Narragansett. Dr. MacSparran always had a warm affection for his native
land, and loved to speak and read the Irish language. During his long
period of service in Narragansett he received many pupils at his home,
imparting a knowledge of the Greek and Latin classics and various other
branches. Writing in 1752, he says: “Mr. Thomas Clap, president of Yale
college, was my scholar when I came first to these parts, and on all
occasions gratefully acknowledges his receiving the first rudiments of
his learning from me, who, by the way, have not but a modicum to boast
of myself.” MacSparran died in 1757.

Rev. Marmaduke Brown, an Irishman, while rector of Trinity church,
Newport, opened a school for the instruction of negro children. In 1763
he had provided for teaching thirty pupils, fifteen of each sex. He
likewise contributed in many other ways toward creating and perpetuating
an educational spirit in the community. This Irishman, Brown, is
mentioned in the charter of the university as a member of the first
board of Fellows. He also appears as a member of the board in 1770. His
wife was an Irish woman of sterling worth and fine intellect. His
father, Rev. Arthur Brown, a native of Drogheda, in Ireland, came to
Rhode Island about 1729, and was pastor of King’s church in Providence.
Marmaduke Brown had a son, Arthur, who became senior Fellow of Trinity
college, Dublin, and member of the Irish parliament. It is not known,—at
least I do not know,—that these Irish Browns of Newport and Providence
were related to the family from whence the university derives its name.

Stephen Jackson of Kilkenny was another Irish teacher. Some of his
descendants have been identified with Brown university. Stephen came to
this country in 1724. He was a resident of Providence in 1745 and is
mentioned as a “schoolmaster.” In 1762 he was living on Benefit street.
One of his sons married Susan Waterman. A grandson of this Kilkenny
teacher was town clerk of Providence for many years, another was cashier
of the Exchange bank, a third was president of the Washington Insurance
company, while a great-grandson of the Irish immigrant became governor
of Rhode Island and was always a warm friend of the university.

Another Irish teacher who must have settled here before Rhode Island
college was instituted, and who thus helped create the educational
atmosphere which so eventuated, was “Old Master” Kelly. He lived and
labored at Tower Hill, in South Kingstown, R. I., and vicinity. In the
Narragansett Historical Register (Vol. 1) it is stated that “Master
Kelly was an Irishman and noted for his love of a good joke, a good
dinner and his courtesy of manner.” When Commodore O. H. Perry was a boy
Kelly was his teacher, having already taught three generations of the
youth of that neighborhood. Anecdote and reminiscence of Kelly are still
numerous among the old families of that part of the state. “It is
recorded of the worthy pedagogue, that during the whole of his long
servitude at Tower Hill, he had never once been known to lose his
temper, but ever preserved a blessed equanimity, to be envied by all of
his arduous and important calling.”

Cole’s History of Washington and Kent Counties, R. I., states that
“Before 1800, Masters Knox and Crocker, natives of Ireland, taught
school at Bowen’s hill [in Coventry] and the neighborhood.” The name
Knox is found in Coventry in 1766. Perhaps the schoolmaster was there as
early as that period or about the time of the founding of Rhode Island
college.

Terence Reilly was a schoolmaster in Providence at the period of the
Revolution and, it may be, for some years previous thereto. I am told
that representatives of old Providence families still have in their
possession receipts for tuition fees paid Master Reilly by their
grandfathers or great-grandfathers.

John Phelan was one other old time schoolmaster in Providence. His
quarters in 1792 were on the west side of the “Great Bridge,” where he
conducted a day and evening school. But Reilly and Phelan came after the
establishment of Brown and so had no bearing on that fact. I merely
mention them here in order that their names may be perpetuated for
future treatment.

It is a remarkable fact that one of the earliest suggestions of which we
have record, for the establishment of a college in Rhode Island, came
from an Irishman—the peerless and immortal Berkeley. No name in the
intellectual life of the colony and the state is more cherished than
his. He was a native of Kilkenny and one of the most illustrious
Irishmen of his day. Born in 1648, he entered the ecclesiastical
calling, and in 1724 was made dean of Derry. For many years he had
entertained a plan for christianizing and civilizing the American
Indian. His central idea was to establish a college in Bermuda, where
missionaries were to be educated for work among the red men.

He was promised funds with which to carry out this project. Relying upon
these assurances, he resigned his deanery, and in “a hired ship of 250
tons” arrived at Newport, R. I., in 1729. His object was, according to
numerous authorities, to here await the arrival of the expected funds,
when he would proceed to Bermuda. It is now also believed that while in
Rhode Island he intended to influence well-to-do people here in behalf
of his plans.

Soon after his arrival in Newport his great merit was recognized and he
was quickly conceded the intellectual leadership of the colony. Berkeley
often visited the Updikes and other noted families in Narragansett. It
was during one of these visits he declared that if the promised funds
for his college ever arrived he would build the institution on Barber’s
Height, North Kingstown, R. I., instead of in Bermuda.

Alluding to this intention, Mr. William E. Foster, public librarian of
Providence, declares of Berkeley that by “thus anticipating by over a
third of a century the actual establishment of a college in Rhode
Island, his plans unquestionably had an important bearing on the steps
leading to it.”

The direct cause, however, that led to the establishment of Brown was
the action taken in 1762 by the Philadelphia Baptist association and
which resulted as aforesaid. The details for the inauguration of the
institution were entrusted largely to Rev. Morgan Edwards of
Philadelphia, and Rev. Samuel Jones of Lower Dublin, Penn. The
institution was incorporated in 1764, its first location being Warren,
R. I., a town named in honor of an Irishman, Sir Peter Warren. In 1770
it was removed to Providence, and in 1804 the name was changed from
Rhode Island college to Brown University.

Dr. Guild in his production on “The First Commencement of Rhode Island
College” declares: “It is a singular and well-known fact, and it may
perhaps be stated in this connection, that the first funds of the
college were obtained from Ireland, in guineas and half guineas, from
Mary Murphy, Susanna Pilson, Joseph Fowke and other members of
Protestant churches and societies in Cork, Waterford, Belfast,
Ballymony, Coleraine, Londonderry and Dublin.” “This,” Dr. Guild
continues, “may be accounted for when we learn that Mr. Edwards’s first
settlement in the ministry, before coming to this country, was in Cork,
where he married his wife [Mary Nunn]. The original subscription book,
with genuine signatures, is one of the most interesting documents on
file in connection with the history of the university.”

Morgan Edwards’s journey to Ireland and England was made in 1767. His
Irish subscription list, mentioned by Dr. Guild, is still preserved in
the university archives. It bears the following heading, written by
Edwards himself:

  “A list of persons in Ireland who have contributed towards endowing
  the college in Rhode Island government. Published, according to
  promise, partly for the honor of the benefactors, and partly to
  satisfy them and the college of the fidelity of their humble
  servant, by whom the money has been collected. The sums are put down
  in English currency, because better known in America.”

Let us accompany him on his Irish visit. I am inclined to believe that
not all his contributors were Protestants. Doubtless there were also
generous, large-hearted Roman Catholics who aided him. In Cork he found
over fifty subscribers. They included Mary Murphy, Matthew O. Dwyer,
Francis McCarthy, Humphrey Crowley and Samuel Neale. In Waterford he
found many friends. In Dublin his contributors included Mrs. Luke Kelly,
Rachel Connor, John Reilly, William Gowan, James Martin and sixty or
seventy others. Samuel McCormick was one of the many who aided him in
Antrim. James Brennan and several others helped him in Westmeath. And so
it was elsewhere throughout the country—a cordial greeting and a
generous reception. The sums contributed were remitted to the college,
from Cork, Newry, Belfast and Derry. Before leaving Ireland, he
designated certain agents in Dublin to whom additional contributions
intended for him could be sent.

In concluding his Irish tour he thus wrote: “Mr. Edwards begs the excuse
of those gentlemen on whom he has not been able to wait a second time to
receive their subscriptions; and desires they will be pleased to pay the
same to Mr. Abram Wilkinson of Park street, or Mr. John Pym Joshua of
Ushers Quay, Dublin, who will soon be authorized by the college to
solicit, receive and remit money for its use. Mr. Edwards has also
heard, since he left Ireland, of several who expressed a willingness to
become benefactors to said college. He thanks them for their good will;
and entreats them to deposit their gifts, whether money or books, with
the above mentioned merchants in Dublin. This list may be had of the
Rev. W. Boulton, in Golden Lane, Dublin.”

From the foregoing it would appear that Irish friends of Rhode Island
college gave books as well as money to the institution. Writing from
abroad in 1768 to President Manning at Warren, Edwards says:

  “MY DEAR FRIEND: I long to hear from you. Your last was of October
  12, 1767.... Mr. Miles informed me that he had sold one of my Irish
  bills ... for £138 12s 4d, which gained for the college upward of
  £13. I have not had any account of the sale of the other bill for
  the same country. I want much to know how you intend to put the
  money out.... You must also observe that in England, as in Ireland,
  I solicit for money towards endowing the college, and, therefore,
  take care that you all attend to the design of the donors. Inclosed
  you have a list of all the sums I received in Ireland, which list
  was distributed in the several places where I have been. The design
  was to let every one of them see that I gave credit for what I
  received.”

Irish generosity was likewise early displayed in this country toward the
young institution. In 1769–’70, Rev. Hezekiah Smith solicited funds in
South Carolina and Georgia. He says in his diary of the tour: “Thursday,
March 1 [1770], went to Malachi Murfee’s.” The list of those who
subscribed in aid of the college on this Southern trip includes Edward
Dempsey, Charles Reilly, Patrick Hinds, James Welsh, Hugh Dillon, John
Boyd, Matthew Roach and Capt. John Canty. Their names deserve to be
perpetuated.

Rev. and Mrs. Edwards, to whom reference has just been made, had several
children. Some of the latter were perhaps born in Ireland. One of the
sons, William, was graduated from Brown in 1776, under President
Manning. At the commencement in 1770, six years previously, this
incident occurred as narrated in the _Providence Gazette_:

“The business of the day being concluded, and before the assembly broke
up, a piece from Homer was pronounced by Master Billy Edwards, one of
the Grammar school boys, not nine years of age.”

Joshua, another son of Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, was hale and hearty in
1849, at over 80 years of age, and presented his father’s Irish and
English subscription lists to the university. I think it may be justly
claimed that if Brown is now prosperous, vigorous and progressive, she
is largely indebted for it to the assistance rendered in the formative
period by Morgan Edwards and his Irish wife.

We have already seen how Marmaduke Brown, an Irishman, was a member of
the university’s first board of Fellows. We now come to another man of
Irish blood who was a graduate of the institution and subsequently a
member of its governing body. I refer to John Dorrance. The immigrant
Dorrances arrived from Ireland about 1715–1720. They settled in what is
now the town of Foster, this state. The immigrants included George and
his two sons, George and James. John Dorrance, the alumnus of Brown, was
born about 1747. He entered Rhode Island college, and in 1774 was
graduated therefrom. For the last sixteen years of his life, the
citizens of the town (Providence) manifested their confidence in him by
making and continuing him president of the town council.

Thus as head of the town he enjoyed a period of duty nearly as long as
the late Mayor Doyle, head of the city. Dorrance was elected sixteen
times and Doyle, I believe, eighteen.

The study of Ireland and the Irish people has for a long period received
attention from many students of Brown. Thus at the graduation exercises
in 1824 Ezra Wilkinson’s oration was entitled a “Defence of the Irish
Character.” At the exercise in 1848, Samuel B. Vernon took as the
subject of his oration “The Mission of St. Patrick to Ireland.”

Joseph Moriarty graduated in the class of 1830, at which time he
delivered an essay on the “Character of Roger Williams.” Mark D. Shea
graduated in 1865. James G. Dougherty was also of that class.

Pleasant memories cluster around the walls and halls of old Brown. The
university is rich in reminiscence and association. In 1799 the
institution conferred the degree of LL. D. upon Hon. James Sullivan, a
son of the Limerick schoolmaster. James was a brother of Gen. John
Sullivan, and with the latter participated in the siege of Newport and
in the battle on the island of Rhode Island. He became governor of
Massachusetts. James Sullivan was, no doubt, intimately acquainted with
leading Rhode Island people and was in all probability a frequent
visitor here. Brown honored herself in honoring him.

In 1844, over fifty years ago, the degree of D. D. was conferred by
Brown upon John Sharp Maginnis. His parents—John and Jane Maginnis—were
from Ireland. In May, 1827, John was licensed to preach as a Baptist. He
was a student of Brown, but his health being poor, his studies were
interrupted. In the winter of 1837–’38, he became pastor of the Pine
Street church in Providence. Delicate health obliged him to resign,
however, and he later became professor of philosophy in Rochester
University. Brown recognized his ability and showed her appreciation of
his talents by making him a doctor of divinity, as stated.

In 1860, Brown again conferred eminent honor upon a gentleman of Irish
lineage. I allude to John Meredith Read, the great jurist, a descendant
of one of the Irish signers of the Declaration of Independence. Brown
gave him the degree of LL. D. Dr. Read was chief justice of
Pennsylvania. His son, John Meredith Read, Jr., was a graduate of Brown,
and received the degree of A. M. During his residence in Providence this
latter gentleman became captain of the National Cadets, or Tigers, and
also served on the staff of Governor Hoppin.

Early in the present century, when Brown had a medical department, there
were several students of the latter whose names are indicative of Irish
extraction, though one or two may be of Scotch blood. Among these were
John Mackie (A. B. 1800), believed to have graduated in medicine about
1813; Andrew Mackie (A. B. 1814), medicine 1817; John McGore (A. B.
1811), medicine 1816; and Joseph Mulliken (A. B. Dartmouth, 1802),
medicine, Brown 1817.

At the centennial of the university in 1864, General Burnside, always a
warm friend of Brown, was among the speakers, as he indeed was at
various other times. It is not generally known, perhaps, that maternally
Burnside was of Irish descent. Yet such is the fact. Ambrose E.
Burnside, whose portrait occupies an honored place on the walls of the
university, was a son of Edghill and Pamelia (Brown) Burnside. Pamelia
Brown, the general’s mother, was the daughter of John Brown, an Irish
immigrant, who had located in South Carolina. Ben: Perley Poore’s “Life
of General Burnside” refers to Pamelia, his mother, as “having the fair
skin and brown hair of her Celtic ancestors, with large, expressive
hazel eyes.” She was born in the Laurens district, S. C.

It is generally claimed that Burnside, in the male line, was of direct
Scottish descent. I do not dispute this, although Burnsides are numerous
in Ireland, and have been so for nearly three hundred years. The Irish
Burnsides have been allied with prominent families in Cavan, Donegal and
other parts of the country. The name is mentioned in O’Hart’s Irish
Pedigrees. Betsy Burnside, an Irish woman, was a resident of Lincoln, R.
I., some years ago, being then ninety-five years of age. We read that at
Fredericksburg, as Meagher’s shattered lines were retiring from their
heroic efforts, Burnside saluted Meagher as the latter passed and
silently grasped his hand. It was a meeting of two valiant commanders,
the one of Irish birth, the other of maternal Irish descent, a fit
subject for the greatest painter that ever lived. Fitting it was that an
Irish sculptor was selected to produce the equestrian statue of Burnside
which stands in Providence.

But Burnside is not the only personage of Irish lineage whom Brown has
honored by permanently displaying his portrait on her walls. There is
another—Commodore Perry, the hero of Lake Erie. Perry of Irish lineage?
Yes, on his mother’s side. Who was his mother? Sarah Alexander, a native
of Newry, Ireland. During our Revolution some American prisoners of war
were confined by the British at Newry, Sarah’s native place. Among them
was Christopher R. Perry. The American prisoners naturally elicited much
commiseration from the Irish, who were in hearty sympathy with the
Revolution.

Miss Alexander became acquainted with Mr. Perry during his imprisonment.
This acquaintance in after years ripened into love and marriage.
Commodore Oliver H. Perry was their son. Shortly after their marriage
they came to Rhode Island and settled in South Kingstown. They were
described as “a young and uncommonly handsome couple,” and their advent
was celebrated by feasting and sociality.

None gave a heartier welcome to Mr. Perry and his fair young Irish bride
than the former’s maternal grandfather, the venerable Oliver Hazard. As
Mrs. Perry, Sarah Alexander became one of the most noted women in Rhode
Island history. She had five sons—all distinguished—and three daughters.
Speaking of Mrs. Perry, Mackenzie, a biographer of Commodore Perry,
states that her friends in the old country “had been involved in the
Irish rebellion. She, herself, had felt a lively interest in the cause
of liberty, and had listened with deep interest to every account she had
heard [in Ireland] of battles and skirmishes in the neighborhood. She
took a pleasure in recounting to her son the achievements of her
countrymen, and always insisted that they [the Irish] were the bravest
people in the world.” These narrations fired the mind of young Perry and
created a desire in him to pursue the profession of arms. His mother,
“to great strength of character added high intellectual powers and rare
social grace, training her children with extraordinary care to high
ideals of life and duty.” It was also said of her that she fitted Perry
“to command others by teaching him early to obey,” and when he was old
enough to attend school she consigned him to the care of Old Master
Kelly, the Irish teacher whom I have already noticed. For years after
the Lake Erie triumph it was spoken of in Rhode Island as “Mrs. Perry’s
victory,” in allusion to the manner in which Oliver had been reared.

The university also possesses a portrait of Andrew Jackson. The latter
visited Rhode Island while president of the United States, and may have
been a guest in Providence and likewise have visited Brown. Jackson was
of Irish descent. In an address to the Charitable Irish Society of
Boston, in 1833, he said: “I am glad to see assembled on this occasion
so many of the countrymen of my father. I am proud,” he continued, “to
be descended from that race which has so much to recommend it to the
good wishes of the world.” The portrait of Jackson in possession of the
university was, I understand, to be seen a few years since in Rhode
Island hall. Possibly it is still there.

In 1850—quite half a century ago—a committee was appointed to raise a
fund of $125,000 for the university. President Wayland was then at the
head of the institution. Among the subscribers to this fund was Matthew
Watson, who contributed $500. Watson was, I believe, a descendant of a
sturdy Irish immigrant, who settled in Barrington, R. I., in 1722. This
immigrant’s name was also Matthew Watson, and nearly every generation of
the family since that day has had a Matthew in it. Bicknell, in his
“Sketches of Barrington,” tells us that Matthew the settler became a
brickmaker and in time wedded Miss Read, the daughter of his employer.
Her father opposed the match and represented to her the “folly” of
throwing herself away, as he expressed it, on “a little poor Irishman.”
His arguments were of no avail, however, and she and Matthew were
married at Barrington in 1732. The marriage was a happy one. The “little
poor Irishman” subsequently purchased the farm of his father-in-law and
conducted the brickmaking business on an extensive scale. He erected a
commodious brick house, which became known to the country round about as
“the great Watson mansion.” Matthew, the immigrant, at one time held the
position of judge of the court of common pleas for Bristol county. He is
estimated to have accumulated in his brickmaking industry a fortune of
$80,000. Some of his descendants are still living on the homestead.
Matthew Watson, the benefactor to Brown in 1850, is believed, as I have
stated, to be a descendant of this old Barrington settler.

The part taken by students and alumni of Brown University in the Civil
War has been alike honorable and eminent. A memorial volume has been
published on the subject. Of the graduates in 1856, Thomas Ewing, Jr.,
became one of the most distinguished. He came of a prominent Ohio family
and on his mother’s side was of Irish descent. He was made colonel of
the Eleventh Kansas Volunteers, 1862; brigadier-general of United States
Volunteers, 1863, and brevet major-general United States Volunteers in
1865. Later he became chief justice of Kansas.

John C. Sullivan of the class of 1867 served in the Fourth Massachusetts
Volunteers, entering the regiment in 1862. He became a student of Brown
University after leaving the army.

In 1861, when the literary society of Brown was arranging its annual
reunion, the question of a poem, of course, came up. It was finally
decided that Fitz James O’Brien, a brilliant young Irishman, should be
invited to officiate as poet of the occasion. O’Brien was a native of
Limerick, Ireland, and born in 1828. His father was a lawyer and his
mother a woman of uncommon beauty. Fitz James was educated in Dublin. He
came to this country in 1852 with letters of introduction to prominent
Americans. He quickly gained entrance to literary and fashionable
society, where his talents soon made him a great favorite. He wielded a
prolific pen. Among his contributions were: “The Ballad of Sir Brown,”
“The Gory Gnome,” “The Wonderful Adventures of Mr. Papplewick” and “The
Demon of the Gibbet.” Among his poems, in addition to those mentioned,
were: “Down in the Glen at Idlewild,” “The Zouaves,” “Helen Lee,” “The
Countersign,” “Sir Brasil’s Falcon,” “The Song of the Locomotive,” and
“The Prisoner of War.” His stories include “The Diamond Lens,” “The
Golden Ingot,” “The Dragon Fang” and “The Pot of Tulips.”

O’Brien enlisted in the Seventh New York regiment and marched with it to
the defence of Washington. At the expiration of his term of service he
returned to New York and started in, personally, to raise a regiment to
be known as the McClellan Rifles. It was while thus engaged that he
received the invitation to attend the exercises at Brown. After
considering the matter, he replied, expressing regret at being unable to
accept. Said he:

“A regiment of rifles which I am now engaged in raising demands all my
time. If you can put me on the track of one hundred good men, you will
please me better than if you crowned me with bays. If there is a spare
population up your way, I would take a recruiting trip thither, and
present my regrets in person.”

So he did not come and the assemblage at Brown was denied the sunshine
of his presence. O’Brien died of a wound received in battle and was
given a soldier’s burial in Greenwood. Nowhere was his death more deeply
felt than among his friends in Providence.

I have already alluded to James G. Dougherty of the class of 1865. In
1862 he enlisted in the Tenth Rhode Island Volunteers, and saw service
in Virginia. The close of the war was enthusiastically celebrated at
Brown. Dougherty was chairman of the committee of arrangements and
introduced President Sears to the great gathering assembled on that
occasion. Mayor Doyle of Providence was also among the speakers. There
was music, an illumination and unbounded enthusiasm.

The university has long numbered among her brightest students young men
of Irish lineage. From the days of long ago down to the present,
graduates of Irish descent have gone forth and won honorable distinction
in life. The dear old _alma mater_ has proudly watched their career and
rejoiced in the credit reflected by their success. Americans they are,
Americans they have been, by birth, by association, by education, in
sympathy, in allegiance, in patriotism. Not that they love the land of
their ancestors less, but that of their nativity more. Of Brown’s alumni
may be mentioned in this connection:

McGuinness, twice secretary of state of Rhode Island, and twice mayor of
Providence.

Whitney, later ordained to the Roman Catholic priesthood.

Harson, the prominent merchant, the vigorous writer, a founder of the
fraternity Phi Kappa Sigma.

Sheahan, clerk of the house of representatives; member of the bar.

Monaghan, United States consul to Mannheim and Chemnitz.

Brennan, a lawyer of note; judge-advocate-general on the staff of
Governor Davis.

And so on, through a long and imposing list,—Murphy, Quinn, Holland,
O’Connor, Kiley, McDonald, Gillrain, McGinn, Smith, Corcoran,
Fitzgerald, Magill, Sexton, Cunningham, O’Neil, Hamill, O’Donnell,
Mahoney, Hoye, Feeley, Cavanaugh and the rest.

The late George J. West, the eminent lawyer, the able legislator, the
earnest friend of public education, was also a graduate of Brown. He was
born in Ireland.

Nor should we forget that other graduate, Hon. Augustus S. Miller, who
became speaker of the Rhode Island house of representatives. He himself
has told me of his paternal Irish ancestry.

Sarah E. Doyle, on whom the university recently conferred a degree,
likewise should not be overlooked. Eminent honor has she reflected on
her Irish father.

And so I conclude. I have endeavored in this paper to show that in the
history of Brown there is an Irish chapter and one of which we may be
proud; one, too, of which the university may be proud. I have by no
means exhausted the subject, which is capable of much additional
development.

[Illustration:

  HON. C. T. DRISCOLL,
  Mayor of NEW HAVEN, CONN.
]

[Illustration:

  HON. JEREMIAH CROWLEY,
  Mayor of LOWELL, MASS.
]

[Illustration:

  REV. JAMES H. O’DONNELL,
  WATERTOWN, CONN.
]

[Illustration:

  MR. CORNELIUS HORIGAN,
  BIDDEFORD, ME.
]

                      FOUR MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY.




      BRIGADIER-GENERAL THOMAS W. SWEENY, U. S. A.—A BIOGRAPHICAL
                           SKETCH—1820–1892.

          BY WILLIAM MONTGOMERY SWEENY, ASTORIA, L. I., N. Y.


Thomas William Sweeny, popularly known as “Fighting Tom” Sweeny, was
born in Cork, Ireland, Dec. 25, 1820. He immigrated to the United States
in 1832, and died at Astoria, L. I., N. Y., April 10, 1892.

He was the youngest son of William Sweeny of Dunmanway, in the county of
Cork, of whom it is said that he “was a true Celt, gifted with uncommon
force of character, and not less remarkable for his courage, daring, and
manly spirit than for that nice sense of honor that ever distinguishes
‘the noblest work of God, an honest man.’” He died in 1827 and was
buried at Macroom, Cork, where numerous generations of the family are
interred.

The branch of the family from which Gen. Thomas William Sweeny, the
subject of this sketch, was descended, has been located in the county of
Cork since the thirteenth century, having migrated thither from Donegal,
in the north of Ireland. Of the parent stock, Dr. McDermott states that
“it was itself a branch of the O’Neills which settled in Donegal and
founded three great families, namely: MacSweeny of Fanad, who had
extensive territories west of Lough Swilly, and whose castle was at
Rathmullen; MacSweeny of Banagh, who had a castle at Rathain, and
MacSweeny na D’Tuatha, signifying MacSweeny of the Territories.”
According to O’Brien and other authorities he was called MacSweeny na
D’Tuagh, signifying MacSweeny of the Battle Axes, a title said to have
been derived from their having been standard bearers and chiefs of
gallowglasses to the O’Donnells. It is from the latter MacSweeny that
the subject of our sketch was descended.

Dr. Smith, in his History of the County of Cork, states that “the
MacSweenys had the parish of Kilmurry, in the territory of Muskery,
county of Cork, and their chief castle at Cloghda, near Macroom, and had
also Castlemore, in the parish of Moviddy.” He likewise mentions that
“they were anciently famous for Irish hospitality,” and relates “that
one of the family erected a large stone near the castle of Cloghda,
inviting all passengers to repair to the house of Edmund MacSweeny for
entertainment.” John O’Mahony, the distinguished Irish scholar, author
of the standard translation of Keating’s History of Ireland, says: “The
MacSweenys were standard bearers and marshals of the O’Donnells. They
were famous throughout Ireland as leaders of those heavy-armed soldiers
called gallowglasses. A branch of the family settled in the county of
Cork in the thirteenth century, as commanders of those soldiers under
the McCarthys of Desmond.”

On the passage to the United States, with his mother and brother
William, in 1832, Thomas W. Sweeny, the subject of this sketch, was
swept overboard from the ship _Augusta_, by a huge wave, and narrowly
escaped drowning, being rescued by three members of the crew who put off
in a boat. He had been in the water thirty-five minutes.

After finishing his education in the schools of New York city, young
Sweeny was apprenticed to the printing business in the well known firm
of Gould, Banks & Company (now, 1899, Banks & Brother), at that time the
leading law book publishers of the United States, “where his many good
qualities made him a general favorite.”

He early evinced a taste for military training, and in 1837, while a
mere youth, attached himself to a military and literary association of
young men known as the “Paul Jones Parading Club,” commanded by Capt.
Joseph Hinken. Afterwards they placed themselves under the command of
Capt. W. W. Tompkins, and adopted the name of “Tompkins’ Cadets.” They
then consolidated with the “Scott Cadets,” commanded by Capt. Charles
Baxter, and in 1842 or 1843, they were again strengthened by a portion
of the seceders from the “Tompkins’ Blues,” whereupon, for the purpose
of identification, they adopted the name “Independent Tompkins’ Blues.”

At the breaking out of the Mexican War, in 1846, Sweeny was one of the
first to volunteer, and he was elected second lieutenant in Company A of
the First New York Volunteers, commanded by Col. Ward B. Burnett. On
Christmas day, 1846, Messrs. Gould, Banks & Company, uniting with a
large number of individuals in their employ, took the occasion—which was
also his birthday—to present Lieutenant Sweeny “a handsome pair of
revolving pistols as a token of esteem and regard.”

On Jan. 8, 1847, Sweeny’s regiment, to the number of about 800 men,
sailed from New York for the seat of war. At Lobos Island, near Vera
Cruz, where the troops landed, Lieutenant Sweeny was placed in command
of a detachment to prepare the ground for encampment. This was his first
command, and was “executed with dispatch and to the full satisfaction of
his superior officer.” Speaking of his subsequent movements an eye
witness says: “After the bombardment of Vera Cruz, his regiment with the
others, was marched into the interior. It was at Cerro Gordo, April 18,
1847, that Lieutenant Sweeny first practically smelt powder. Company A
and one other were detached to support Capt. Francis Taylor’s battery in
taking the first height. They cut a road through the chaparral for the
artillery, to the left of the enemy’s position, in order to turn it.
After reaching the base of the hill, and winding around it, they halted
for orders. They were here exposed to a raking fire of grape and
canister from the Mexican batteries.”

At Contreras, Aug. 19, 1847, where the New York regiment stood the whole
night in a gully up to their knees in mud, the men were greatly
encouraged by the bearing of Lieutenant Sweeny.

At Churubusco, Aug. 20, 1847, while leading his men into action, Sweeny
was struck in the groin by a spent ball. It passed through three pieces
of clothing and produced a painful, though not dangerous, wound.
Although advised to retire, he refused so long as he was able to stand.
In a few minutes he was again wounded, receiving a musket ball in the
right arm, but nevertheless he continued to lead and animate his men
until he sank from exhaustion and loss of blood and had to be carried to
the rear.

The wound in his arm proved to be so serious that amputation was found
to be necessary in order to save his life. General Shields, who was
present at the operation, was affected even to tears at the fortitude
displayed by Sweeny, who, notwithstanding the fact that no anæsthetics
were used, showed not the slightest signs of flinching under the
terrible ordeal.

On his return to New York city, in 1848, Lieutenant Sweeny was received
with much honor; he was brevetted captain by the governor of the state,
and was presented a silver medal by the city government. He was also
given a “grand reception ball” at Castle Garden, which was described as
the “largest and most brilliant ball of the season.” Among the invited
guests were ex-President Martin Van Buren, Major-Gen. John A. Quitman,
U. S. A., Hon. Simon Cameron of Pennsylvania, Hon. William B. Maclay, M.
C., representatives of the city and state governments and other people
of note.

On recommendation of General Scott, Sweeny was appointed by the
president a second lieutenant in the Second United States Infantry,
March 3, 1848, and from March to July, 1848, he was stationed at Fort
Columbus, Governor’s Island, New York harbor. During August and
September, 1848, Lieutenant Sweeny was at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri,
and in October, 1848, he was stationed at Fort Hamilton, New York
harbor, on recruiting service.

Nov. 8, 1848, his regiment, under command of Brevet Maj.-Gen. Bennett
Riley, who had been appointed military governor of California, sailed
from New York for California _via_ Cape Horn. At Rio Janerio, where they
stopped several days, they were entertained at a ball aboard the United
States steamship _Brandywine_. They reached Monterey, Cal., April 6,
1849, and soon established regimental headquarters at San Diego.

On June 11, 1851, Sweeny was promoted to be first lieutenant in the
Second Infantry. In 1852 he engaged in the Yuma Indian War, and
commanded an expedition of twenty-seven men, who penetrated into the
Cocopa country in May, and after a sharp engagement, captured one
hundred and twenty-five armed warriors and marched them into Camp Yuma,
where a treaty was entered into which broke up the confederation of the
River tribes. While engaged on this duty, Sweeny received a severe arrow
wound in the neck.

In 1854 he was ordered to Fort Pierre, in what was then northern
Nebraska, where he served as aid to Gen. William S. Harney,
participating in the campaign against the Sioux in 1855–’56, and was
present at the “Great Treaty” made with the Sioux nation at Fort Pierre,
at which many famous chiefs were present. In 1858 Sweeny was ordered to
New York city on recruiting service, and was stationed there when the
Rebellion broke out.

Jan. 19, 1861, he was promoted to captain, and soon after was ordered by
General Scott to proceed to St. Louis, Mo., and assume command of the
United States arsenal there. It contained at this time sixty thousand
stand of arms, several field batteries, a number of heavy guns, a
million and a half of ball cartridges, over forty tons of powder and a
large quantity of other munitions of war. Captain Sweeny had only forty
unassigned recruits under him to defend this vast property, while in the
city were over three thousand Confederate minute-men, armed and drilled,
to be ready at a moment’s notice. Learning of a threatened attack,
Sweeny let it be known that he would blow up the arsenal sooner than
allow it to be captured, and he meant what he said. So they did not make
the attempt.

Sweeny was brigadier-general of Missouri Infantry, May 20 to Aug. 14,
1861; made colonel of Fifty-second Illinois Infantry, Jan. 21, 1862; was
brigadier-general of volunteers, Nov. 29, 1862, to Aug. 24, 1865;
commissioned major in the Sixteenth United States Infantry, Oct. 20,
1863, and was retired with the full rank of brigadier-general, United
States army, May 11, 1870.

In June, 1861, General Sweeny took command of the Southwest expedition,
and proceeded to Springfield, Mo., where he assumed command of all the
United States forces in that part of the state, including Siegel’s and
Saloman’s regiments, which had left St. Louis with two 4–gun batteries.
July 20, General Sweeny took command of a flying column of twelve
hundred men, moved on a depot of Confederate supplies at Forsyth, Mo.,
and captured the same. He led the Second Kansas regiment at the battle
of Wilson’s Creek, Aug. 10, 1861, General Lyon leading the First Iowa.
Sweeny was severely wounded, but after the death of Lyon favored
following up the enemy. Sturgis, who succeeded Lyon in command, however,
decided otherwise.

As colonel of the Fifty-second Illinois, Sweeny was attached to General
Grant’s army, and after the capture of Fort Donelson took charge of six
thousand prisoners of war _en route_ to Alton, Ill. At the battle of
Shiloh (Pittsburg Landing), April 6 and 7, 1862, Sweeny commanded the
Third Brigade of the Second Division, Army of the Tennessee, the brigade
comprising about five thousand, five hundred men. Towards the close of
the first day’s battle, his command occupied a ravine near Gen. W. T.
Sherman’s left, known as the “Hornet’s Nest.”

Speaking of this battle General Sherman has said: “I remember well that
Col. Thomas W. Sweeny, a one-armed officer who had lost an arm in the
Mexican war and did not belong to my command, stood near by and quickly
spoke up: ‘I understand perfectly what you want; let me do it.’
‘Certainly,’ said I; ‘Sweeny, go at once and occupy that ravine,
converting it into a regular bastion.’ He did it, and I attach more
importance to that event than to any of the hundred achievements which I
have since heard ‘saved the day,’ for we held that line and ravine all
night, and the next morning advanced from there to certain victory.”

In this battle Sweeny was again wounded, “receiving a minié ball in his
remaining arm and another shot in his foot, while his horse fell riddled
with seven balls. Almost fainting from loss of blood, he was lifted upon
another horse and remained on the field through the entire day. His
coolness and his marvelous escapes were talked of before many campfires
throughout the army.”

Capt. C. H. Fish, Fifty-second Illinois, speaking of the first day’s
battle at Shiloh, wrote of Sweeny: “Colonel Sweeny came riding up the
line and reached our regiment, but not recognizing it, asked: ‘What
regiment is this?’ On my telling him it was the Fifty-second Illinois,
he said: ‘Well, I am at home once more. I guess I will stay here.’ Our
colonel had only one arm—the left one; the other he lost in Mexico. When
on drill or review he held the reins in his teeth and sword in left
hand. The balls seemed to fill the air at this moment, the firing was so
terrific, but our colonel [Sweeny] coolly sat on his horse, quietly
smoking a cigar, ever and anon removing it and puffing forth vast
quantities of smoke. Presently a minié ball came cutting through the
air, struck his cigar, and cut it off at his teeth, doing some slight
injury to his moustache. Yet not a muscle moved. He quietly replaced the
cigar with a fresh one and smoked away.”

After the battle of Shiloh, Sweeny was granted a leave of absence owing
to disability resulting from wounds received. During this period he was
presented an elegant sword by the city of Brooklyn, N. Y. At the
expiration of his leave, he again took the field, returning in time to
participate in the battle of Iuka and the siege of Corinth—Oct. 3 and 4,
1862,—where he was again wounded, and had a horse shot under him. Gen.
Thomas A. Davies, commanding the Second Division, in his report of the
battle of Corinth, states that “Colonel Sweeny, commanding First
Brigade, behaved in the most gallant manner throughout, and should be
immediately promoted.”

Sweeny was commissioned brigadier-general of volunteers, Nov. 29, 1862.
In the Atlanta campaign, he commanded the Second Division of the
Sixteenth Corps, Army of the Tennessee. At Snake Creek Gap he took
possession of the “Gap” with his division twenty-four hours before the
arrival of supporting cavalry, and held it in spite of the desperate
efforts of the enemy to dislodge him. Subsequently he took part in the
battle of Resaca, and forced a passage across the Oostenaula river, at
Lay’s Ferry, where he fought a successful battle which resulted in Gen.
“Joe” Johnston’s retreat southward. He also took part in the battles of
Dallas and Kennesaw Mountain, the actions at Nickajack Creek, Ruff’s
Mills, Rome Cross Roads, Calhoun’s Ferry and other engagements.

At the battle before Atlanta, July 22, 1864, his division drove the
enemy back with great slaughter, capturing four battle flags and nine
hundred prisoners. This was the day that General McPherson was killed—he
had shared Sweeny’s tent the previous night. At the conclusion of the
battle Gen. Frank P. Blair, commanding the Seventeenth Army Corps, who
had witnessed the repulse by Sweeny’s division, rode down at the head of
his staff to where Sweeny stood and grasping him warmly by the hand,
said: “Sweeny, I congratulate you. You have saved the army of the
Tennessee!”

General Sweeny was one of the Guard of Honor in charge of the remains of
President Lincoln when they lay in state in the city hall, New York. On
Aug. 24, 1865, Sweeny was mustered out of the volunteer service, and was
in command of the post at Nashville, Tenn., to October of that year.

An ardent lover of the land of his birth, General Sweeny longed for the
day and the hour when, on the field of battle, he might meet the common
foe of his adopted and of his native land. Even while lying disabled by
his wounds in Mexico, he had made arrangements to cast himself into the
then expected struggle for Irish independence, but the opportunity was
not afforded him. In 1856, while he was stationed at Fort Pierre,
Nebraska territory, he wrote to his family: “I see they are making
another movement for Irish independence. I hope it will amount to
something this time. E——, how would you like me to embark in such an
undertaking? We might accomplish great things—do deeds that our children
could point at on the page of history with pride—perhaps help to pull a
sinewy tyrant from his throne, and raise a prostrate people from chains
to liberty.”

It was not, however, until after the close of the Civil War that the
opportunity arrived. In 1865 the Fenian congress assembled in
Philadelphia to decide upon the best means to adopt to obtain the
liberation of Ireland. General Sweeny appeared before this convention
and submitted to it his plan for the invasion of Canada. He also offered
his services to aid in carrying out the plan, both plan and services
being accepted. He was appointed secretary of war of the Fenian
Brotherhood, and commander-in-chief of the Irish forces with the rank of
major-general; William R. Roberts, a prominent merchant of New York and
afterwards United States minister to Chili, was appointed president.

In 1866, General Sweeny was offered, by the Mexican government, the
grade of general of division in the Mexican army, which he declined. He
was finally retired from active service May 11, 1870, with the rank of
brigadier-general, U. S. A. He was wounded so often in battle that on
one occasion, after an engagement, General Grant met him and laughingly
said: “How is it, Sweeny, that you have not been hit? There must be some
mistake. This fight will hardly count unless you can show another
wound!”

In a sketch of General Sweeny published some years ago, Junius Henri
Browne, war correspondent of the _New York Tribune_, says: “Sweeny is,
as his name indicates, an Irishman by birth, but an American to the
backbone. No soldier was more devoted to the Union cause, or fought more
valiantly for the integrity of the republic.”

General Sweeny was twice married. His first wife was Eleanor Swain Clark
of Brooklyn, N. Y., daughter of John and Hepsabeth (Paddock) Clark. In
both the paternal and maternal line, she was descended from the Coffins,
Barnards, Folgers, Husseys, Macys and Swains, who were among the ten
purchasers of Nantucket in 1659. She was sixth in descent from John
Swain, 2d, son of John Swain, 1st, and Mary (Weir) Swain, the first male
white child born on the island (in 1664), and seventh in descent from
Benjamin Franklin.

General Sweeny’s second wife—who survives him—was Eugenia Octavia Reagan
of Augusta, Ga., daughter of Dr. Francis Washington Reagan and Sarah
Cecelia (Refo) Reagan. Her paternal ancestors were among the first
settlers of the present states of Virginia, North Carolina, Georgia and
Tennessee. Through her paternal great-grandmother, Mary Dandridge of
Virginia, Mrs. Sweeny is descended from Dorothea Spotswood Dandridge,
the second wife of Patrick Henry, and Martha Dandridge Custis, the wife
of George Washington.

After retirement from the army General Sweeny virtually withdrew to
private life. The last public act of his “long, varied and useful
career,” was to use his personal aid and influence to secure a fund for
the erection of a home at Austin, Texas, for disabled Confederate
veterans.

General Sweeny died at his residence, 126 Franklin street, Astoria, Long
Island, April 10, 1892. He was buried in the family plot, Greenwood
cemetery, with military honors, six batteries of the First U. S.
Artillery furnishing the escort. The following are a few of the many
tributes paid the deceased soldier:

Gen. W. T. Sherman: “One of my ‘Old Guard.’”

Gen. J. M. Schofield: “General Sweeny was regarded by all who knew him
as an exceedingly brave soldier and an ardent patriot.”

Gen. F. Sigel: “He was an eminent soldier and a patriotic citizen.”

Gen. Robert Nugent: “His gallant and unblemished record in the army is a
matter of history.”

Gen. John P. Hawkins: “He was a brave soldier and an honest man.”

_Army and Navy Journal_: “As gallant, warmhearted and impulsive an
officer as ever wore the uniform.”

Archbishop Ryan of Philadelphia: “Many noble qualities distinguished
that truly Christian soldier.”

_Harper’s Weekly_: “A distinguished soldier of three wars, whose conduct
at Shiloh won Sherman’s especial praise.”

_New York Recorder_: “From lieutenant, to brigadier-general, he honored
every position held by him during a period of service commencing with
the Mexican War.”

Military order of the Loyal Legion, Commandery of the State of New York:
“General Sweeny was a man of noble heart and the highest aspirations.”




    PAPERS READ BEFORE THE SOCIETY, OR CONTRIBUTED FOR PUBLICATION.


Since its organization the Society has been favored with twenty-nine
papers and many addresses, on topics within its line of work. Following
is the list of papers:

  By Thomas Hamilton Murray, Secretary-General of the Society: “The
  Irish Bacons who settled at Dedham, Mass., in 1640,” one of whose
  descendants, John Bacon, was killed April 19, 1775, on the fight at
  West Cambridge (battle of Lexington).

  By Hon. John C. Linehan, State Insurance Commissioner, Concord, N.
  H., a paper on “The Seizure of the Powder at Fort William and Mary,”
  by Maj. John Sullivan and his associates, some of which powder was
  later dealt out to the patriots at Bunker Hill.

  By Edward J. Brandon, City Clerk, Cambridge, Mass., a paper on the
  “Battle of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge,” during which he read a
  list of Irish names borne by Minute-men or militia in the battle of
  the Nineteenth of April, 1775.

  By Joseph Smith, Secretary of the Police Commission, Lowell, Mass.,
  on “The Irishman, Ethnologically Considered.”

  By Dennis Harvey Sheahan, Providence, R. I., ex-Clerk of the Rhode
  Island House of Representatives, “The Need of an Organization such
  as the A. I. H. S., and its Scope.”

  By Thomas Hamilton Murray: “Matthew Watson, an Irish Settler of
  Barrington, R. I., 1722.”

  By Thomas Addis Emmet, M. D., New York city: “Irish Emigration
  During the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries.”

  By Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.: “Some Pre-Revolutionary
  Irishmen.”

  By Rev. John J. McCoy, P. R., Chicopee, Mass.: “The Irish Element in
  the Second Massachusetts Volunteers in the Recent War” (with Spain).

  By Bernard Corr, Boston, Mass.: “The Ancestors of Gen. John
  Sullivan.”

  By Hon. Joseph T. Lawless, Secretary of State, Virginia: “Some Irish
  Settlers in Virginia.”

  By James F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H.: “The Irish Pioneers and
  Founders of Peterborough.”

  By Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.: “Some Ways in which American History
  is Falsified.”

  By James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.: “The ‘Scotch Irish’ and
  ‘Anglo-Saxon’ Fallacies.”

  By Thomas Hamilton Murray: “Sketch of an Early Irish Settlement in
  Rhode Island.”

  By Edward Fitzpatrick, Louisville, Ky.: “Early Irish Settlers in
  Kentucky.”

  By Thomas Hamilton Murray: “Gen. John Sullivan and the Battle of
  Rhode Island, 1778.”

  By Martin Scully, Waterbury, Conn.: “An Early Irishman of
  Waterbury.”

  By Daniel M. O’Driscoll, Charleston, S. C.: “David Hamilton, a
  Soldier of the American Revolution.”

  By Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.: “Irish Pioneers of Texas.”

  By Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.: Four papers outlining the
  field of the Society’s work.

  By Thomas Hamilton Murray: “The Irish Chapter in the History of
  Brown University.”

  By Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.: “The Whistlers—A Family Illustrious
  in War and Peace.”

  By Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.: “Irish Pioneers and
  Builders of Kentucky.”

  By Michael E. Hennessy, of the _Daily Globe_ staff, Boston, Mass.:
  “Men of Irish Blood who Have Attained Eminence in American
  Journalism.”

  By William Montgomery Sweeny, Astoria, L. I., N. Y.:
  “Brigadier-General Thomas W. Sweeny, U. S. A., A Biographical
  Sketch.”


                          ADDRESSES DELIVERED.

  Addresses have been delivered before the Society, or at events held
  under its auspices, by the following among others:

  Hon. Thomas J. Gargan, Boston, Mass.
  Hon. Hugh J. Carroll, Pawtucket, R. I.
  Hon. John C. Linehan, Concord, N. H.
  Charles A. DeCourcy, Lawrence, Mass.
  Paul B. Du Chaillu, the traveler and author.
  Osborne Howes, Boston, Mass.
  James Cunningham, Portland, Me.
  Robert A. Woods, Boston, Mass.
  Gen. James R. O’Beirne, New York City.
  John Mackinnon Robertson, London, England.
  P. J. Flatley, Boston, Mass.
  Rev. John J. McCoy, Chicopee, Mass.
  Rev. Edward McSweeny, Bangor, Me.
  Rev. P. Farrelly, Central Falls, R. I.
  James Jeffrey Roche, Boston, Mass.
  Edward A. Moseley, Washington, D. C.
  Thomas B. Lawler, Worcester, Mass.
  M. J. Harson, Providence, R. I.
  Joseph Smith, Lowell, Mass.
  Dennis H. Sheahan, Providence, R. I.
  Rear-Admiral Belknap, U. S. N. (retired), Boston, Mass.
  J. D. O’Connell, Washington, D. C.
  Hon. Patrick A. Collins, ex-U. S. Consul-General to London.
  Judge Wauhope Lynn, New York City.
  Capt. Edward O’Meagher Condon, Washington, D. C.
  Hon. Thomas Dunn English, Newark, N. J.
  Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet, New York City.
  Very Rev. M. C. O’Brien, V. G., Bangor, Me.
  E. Benj. Andrews, President of Brown University.
  Prof. Alonzo Williams, Brown University.
  Rev. Arthur J. Teeling, Lynn, Mass.
  Rev. T. P. Linehan, Biddeford, Me.
  Mayor Tilton, Portsmouth, N. H.
  Charles H. Clary, Hallowell, Me.
  John Griffin, Portsmouth, N. H.
  James F. Brennan, Peterborough, N. H.
  Cornelius Horigan, Biddeford, Me.
  Rev. James A. Flynn, Biddeford, Me.
  Rev. John J. McGinnis, Sanford, Me.
  Bernard Corr, Boston, Mass.
  Dr. W. D. Collins, Haverhill, Mass.
  John F. Doyle, New York City.
  W. J. Kelly, Kittery, Me.
  Dr. W. H. A. Lyons, Portsmouth, N. H.
  James H. McGlinchey, Portland, Me.
  Hon. John D. Crimmins, New York City.
  Hon. Charles E. Gorman, Providence, R. I.
  Hon. William McAdoo, New York City.
  Charles McCarthy, Jr., Portland, Me.
  Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, Governor of New York.
  Hon. Patrick J. Boyle, Mayor of Newport, R. I.
  Thomas F. O’Malley, Somerville, Mass.
  Stephen J. Richardson, New York City.
  Rev. S. Banks Nelson, Woonsocket, R. I.
  Rev. Frank L. Phalen, Concord, N. H.
  Rev. L. J. Deady, Newport, R. I.
  Dennis H. Tierney, Waterbury, Conn.
  John Jerome Rooney, New York City.
  P. J. McCarthy, Providence, R. I.




                            MEMBERSHIP ROLL,

                 AMERICAN-IRISH HISTORICAL SOCIETY.[17]

           [For officers of the Society see pages 9, 10, 11.]


  =Ackland, Thomas J.=, editorial department, _The Pilot_, 630
    Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Ahern, John=, 5 Highland Street, Concord, N. H.

  =Ahern, John J.=, East Cambridge, Mass.

  =Ahern, William J.=, 64 Franklin Street, Concord, N. H.; has served as
    a member of the Legislature of New Hampshire.

  =Armstrong, Col. James=, Charleston, S. C.

  =Aylward, James F.=, 347 Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Banigan, Hon. James E.=, Pawtucket, R. I., a State Senator.

  =Bannin, Michael E.=, 893 Lafayette Ave., New York City.

  =Barnes, James=, Players’ Club, New York City; grandnephew of
    Commodore Jack Barry.

  =Barrett, David L.=, Englewood, N. J.

  =Barrett, Thomas=, 10 West 90th Street, New York City.

  =Barrett, Dr. Thomas J.=, 41 Wellington Street, Worcester, Mass.;
    member State Board of Dental Registration.

  =Barry, H. Nason=, New York City.

  =Barry, Very Rev. John E.=, Vicar-General Roman Catholic Diocese of
    Manchester, N. H.; residence, Concord, N. H.

  =Barry, P. T.=, 93 South Jefferson Street, Chicago, Ill.

  =Bennett, Joseph M.= (M. D.), 186 Broad Street, Providence, R. I.; a
    brother of Secretary of State Bennett of Rhode Island.

  =Betts, Rev. George C.=, Rector St. James’s Protestant Episcopal
    Church, Goshen, N. Y.

  =Birmingham, Robert M.= (M. D.), South Lawrence, Mass.

  =Black, Thomas=, Berkley, Virginia.

  =Bodfish, Rev. Joshua P.=, Rector St. John’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Canton, Mass.

  =Boland, Michael J.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Bolton, Rev. J. Gray= (D. D.) (Presbyterian), 1906 Pine Street,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Boyle, Hon. Patrick J.=, Mayor of Newport, R. I.

  =Boyle, Thomas H.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Bradley, Richard E.=, 122 Monument Street, Portland, Me.

  =Brady, Rev. Cyrus Townsend=, Protestant Episcopal Archdeacon of
    Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Brady, Col. James D.=, Kellogg Building, Washington, D. C.; ex-Member
    of Congress from Virginia.

  =Brandon, Edward J.=, City Clerk, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Brannigan, Felix=, Department of Justice, Washington, D. C.

  =Bree, James P.=, 820 Chapel Street, member of the Connecticut
    legislature, New Haven, Conn.

  =Breen, Hon. John=, Lawrence, Mass.; served three terms as Mayor of
    Lawrence.

  =Brennan, James F.=, attorney and counselor-at-law, Peterborough, N.
    H.

  =Brennan, Michael=, 2 West 75th Street, New York City; proprietor of
    the Hotel St. Remo, 74th and 75th Streets and Central Park West.

  =Brennan, Thomas S.=, 353 West 56th Street, New York City.

  =Broderick, James A.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Broderick, Rev. Thos. W.=, Hartford, Conn.

  =Broe, James A.=, 478 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Brogan, Rev. Farrah A.=, St. Vincent’s Church, South Boston, Mass.

  =Brophy, John P.= (Ph. D., LL. D.), 321 West 137th Street, New York
    City.

  =Brosnahan, Rev. Timothy=, Rector St. Mary’s Church, Waltham, Mass.

  =Brown, Col. William L.=, _Daily News_, New York City.

  =Bryson, John=, 677 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Buckley, Dennis T.=, 19 Bacon Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Burke, Edmund=, 377 Broadway, Milwaukee, Wis.

  =Burke, J. E.=, Superintendent of Public Schools, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Burke, Martin= (M. D.), 147 Lexington Avenue, New York City.

  =Burke, Robert E.=, recently City Solicitor, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Burke, Tobias A.=, _Argus_ office, Portland, Me.

  =Burke, William J.=, 119 Webster Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Ellery C.=, Quincy, Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Francis J.=, Brighton (Boston), Mass.

  =Butler, Rev. Thomas F.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Butler, Hon. Matthew C.=, ex-U. S. Senator, Edgefield, S. C.

  =Buttimer, Thomas H.=, attorney-at-law, 27 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

  =Byrne, John=, 45 Wall Street, New York City.

  =Byrne, Michael J.=, 147 Cook Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Byrne, Very Rev. William= (V. G., D. D.), 6 Allen Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Cahill, John H.=, 15 Dey Street, New York City.

  =Cahill, M. J.=, dry-goods merchant, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Callaghan, Lawrence=, manufacturer, 95 Locke Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Callahan, John A.=, School Principal, 79 Lincoln Street, Holyoke,
    Mass.

  =Callahan, John F.=, 202–206 Lincoln Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Callanan, E. J.=, of Marlier, Callanan & Co., 172 Tremont Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Calnin, James=, 101–107 Lakeview Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  =Campbell, James P.=, lawyer, 20 West 70th Street, New York City.

  =Cannon, James N.=, 240 Hamilton Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Cantwell, John J.=, Brookline, Mass.

  =Canty, T. W.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Carey, Jeremiah J.=, office the _Sunday Star_, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carmichael, James H.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Carmody, John R.=, care U. S. Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

  =Carney, Matthew J.=, of M. Carney & Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carney, Michael=, of M. Carney & Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carrigan, Thomas C.=, Worcester, Mass.

  =Carter, Richard A.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Carter, Hon. Thomas H.=, U. S. Senator, Helena, Mont.

  =Carroll, Edward=, Cashier Leavenworth National Bank, Leavenworth,
    Kansas.

  =Carroll, Hon. Hugh J.=, Pawtucket, R. I., ex-Member of the Rhode
    Island General Assembly; ex-Mayor of Pawtucket.

  =Carroll, James B.=, lawyer, 50 Temple Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Carroll, Thomas=, director of the Public Library, Peabody, Mass.

  =Casey, Martin=, Fort Worth, Texas.

  =Casey, Stephen J.=, lawyer, Providence, R. I.

  =Casey, William J.=, Palm Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Cashman, John=, 30 Church Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Casman, John P.=, 34 Howard Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Cassidy, Patrick= (M. D.), Norwich, Conn.

  =Cassidy, Patrick J.= (M. D.), New London, Conn.

  =Cavanagh, Michael=, 1159 Fourth Street, N. E., Washington, D. C.

  =Cavanaugh, John B.=, 924 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Cavanaugh, Thomas Jeffrey=, 54 Stark Corporation, Manchester, N. H.

  =Chittick, Rev. J. J.=, Hyde Park, Mass.

  =Clancy, Lawrence=, Oswego, N. Y.

  =Clare, William F.=, 39 Cortlandt Street, New York City.

  =Clark, Joseph H.=, 13 Adam Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Clark, Rev. James F.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Clarke, Rev. Michael=, Rector Church of the Sacred Heart, East
    Boston, Mass.

  =Clary, Charles H.=, Hallowell, Me.

  =Clifford, James=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Clune, John H.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Coakley, Daniel H.=, 77 Arlington Street, Brighton (Boston), Mass.;
    Member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1892–’94.

  =Coffey, John J.=, Neponset, Mass.

  =Coffey, Rev. Michael J.=, East Cambridge, Mass.

  =Cogan, D. S.=, 320 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Coghlan, Rev. Gerald P.=, Church of Our Lady of Mercy, Philadelphia,
    Pa.

  =Cohalan, Daniel F.=, lawyer, 271 Broadway, New York City.

  =Coleman, Bernard F.=, 38 East 69th Street, New York City.

  =Coleman, Cornelius F.=, 162–164 Middle Street, Portland, Me.

  =Coleman, James S.=, 38 East 69th Street, New York City.

  =Collins, Rev. Charles W.=, the Cathedral, Portland, Me.

  =Collins, James M.=, 6 Sexton Avenue, South Main Street, Concord, N.
    H.

  =Collins, Hon. John S.=, Gilsum, N. H.

  =Collins, Hon. Patrick A.=, ex-Member of Congress; late United States
    Consul-General to London, England; Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Collins, Stephen J.=, 212 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Collins, Timothy J.=, _Daily Advertiser_, Quincy, Mass.

  =Collins, William D.= (M. D.), 170 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Collison, Harvey N.=, member Massachusetts Legislature, 1887–’88; has
    also served on Boston School Board, 5 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Conaty, Bernard=, 30 Cypress Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Conaty, Rev. B. S.=, 340 Cambridge Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Conaty, Rt. Rev. Thomas J.= (D. D.), Rector of the Catholic
    University, Washington, D. C.

  =Concannon, John S.=, 19 Crystal Cove Avenue, Winthrop, Mass., or City
    Hall, Boston, Mass.

  =Condon, Edward O’Meagher=, 98 5th Avenue, New York City.

  =Coney, Patrick H.=, attorney-at-law, Topeka, Kansas.

  =Conley, Henry=, 7 Winthrop Street, Portland, Me.

  =Conley, John E.=, 87 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.; ex-Clerk of
    the Rhode Island House of Representatives.

  =Conlin, Rev. John F.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Conlin, Michael=, 59 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Conlon, Michael=, 15 Pool Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Connellan, James A.=, 98 Exchange Street, Portland, Me.

  =Conners, Edward=, 31 Hammond Street, Bangor, Me.; has been a member
    of the Board of Aldermen, and of the Police Examining Board.

  =Connery, William P.=, Pleasant Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Connolly, James=, Coronado, Cal.

  =Connolly, Michael J.=, Trustee of the Public Library, Waltham, Mass.

  =Connolly, Rev. Arthur T.=, Rector Church of the Blessed Sacrament,
    Center and Creighton Streets, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Connolly, Richard=, 132 Boston Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Connor, J. F.=, of Connor & Tracy, Peabody, Mass.

  =Connor, John J.=, _Sunday Register_ Office, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Connor, John W.=, 93 Main Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Connor, Michael=, 509 Beech Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Conroy, Philip F.=, Newport Gaslight Co., Newport, R. I.

  =Cooke, Rev. Michael J.=, Fall River, Mass.

  =Corbett, Peter B.=, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corcoran, C. J.=, City Clerk, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Corcoran, John H.=, 587 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, Mass.

  =Corcoran, Hon. John W.=, recently a Judge of the Superior Court;
    Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corcoran, Dr. Luke=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Corr, Bernard=, Chamber of Commerce Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Corrigan, J. P.= (M. D.), Benedict House, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Costello, A. E.=, 4 East 119th Street, New York City.

  =Costello, John H.=, 40 East Brookline Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Coughlin, J. A.=, Manager, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Coughlin, John=, 177 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Coyle, Rev. James=, Taunton, Mass.

  =Crane, John=, 307 West 103d Street, New York City; member of the
    military Order of the Loyal Legion; vice-president of the Society of
    the Army of the Tennessee.

  =Cranitch, William=, 841 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =Crimmins, Hon. John D.=, 40 East 68th Street, New York City.

  =Crimmins, Lieut. Martin L.= (U. S. A.), care of Hon. John D.
    Crimmins, New York City, or War Department, Washington, D. C.

  =Cronin, Capt. William=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Cronin, John H.=, druggist, 317 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Croston, Dr. J. F.=, Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Crowe, Edward J.=, Lamoille, Winona County, Minn.

  =Crowell, Hon. Henry G.=, South Yarmouth, Mass.; a descendant of David
    O’Killia (O’Kelly), who settled on Cape Cod as early as 1657.

  =Crowley, Bartholomew=, manufacturer, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Crowley, Hon. Jeremiah=, Mayor of Lowell, Mass.

  =Crowley, John F.=, Standard Clothing Co., Bangor, Me.

  =Cuffe, Rev. John P.=, Quincy, Mass.

  =Cullen, Rev. John S.=, Watertown, Mass.

  =Cummins, Rev. John F.=, Roslindale, Mass.

  =Cummins, Thomas J.=, 65 First Place, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Cummings, Matthew J.=, Overseer of the Poor, Providence, R. I.

  =Cunningham, Christopher D.=, 178 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, Francis W.=, 167 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, James=, 277 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =Cunningham, John E.=, Gardiner, Me.

  =Curran, Bartley J.=, 72 Exchange Street, Portland, Me.

  =Curran, James=, President the James Curran Manufacturing Co., 512–514
    West 36th Street, New York City.

  =Curran, Maurice J.=, of the Curran & Joyce Co., Lawrence, Mass.

  =Curran, William F.=, 38 Fern Street, Bangor, Me.; has served several
    terms on the Board of Aldermen.

  =Curry, Capt. P. S.=, 1 Box Place, Lynn, Mass.; superintendent of
    construction for the new Federal Building in that city.

  =Curtin, Jeremiah=, Bristol, Vt.; author of “Hero Tales of Ireland,”
    “Myths and Folk-Lore of Ireland,” “Myths and Folk-Tales of the
    Russians, Western Slavs and Magyars;” translator of works of Henryk
    Sienkiewicz.

  =Cusack, Peter=, 38 Washington Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Cushnahan, Rev. P. M.=, Rector of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Ogden City, Utah.

  =Dailey, Peter=, real estate, etc., 209 Washington Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Daly, Hon. Joseph F.=, New York City; recently Justice of the Supreme
    Court.

  =Daly, John=, South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Daly, John J.=, Salt Lake City, Utah; one of the heaviest mine owners
    in the state.

  =Daly, Rev. Patrick J.=, Rector Church of St. Francis de Sales, Vernon
    Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Danaher, Hon. Franklin M.=, Albany, N. Y.

  =Danahy, Rev. J. T.=, Newton Upper Falls, Mass.

  =Danvers, Robert E.=, 17 West 65th Street, New York City.

  =Dasey, Charles V.=, 7 Broad Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Davidson, John A.=, 246 West 45th Street, New York City.

  =Davis, Charles E.=, 2 Park Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Davis, Dr. F. L.=, 253 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Davis, Hon. Robert T.=, Fall River, Mass.; ex-Mayor; ex-Member of
    Congress.

  =Davis, John J.=, Greenville, Pa.

  =DeCourcy, Charles A.=, of DeCourcy & Coulson, lawyers, Essex Street,
    Lawrence, Mass.

  =Delehanty, Dr. W. J.=, Trumbull Square, Worcester, Mass.

  =Dempsey, George C.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dempsey, Henry L.=, Stillwater, R. I.; recently Postmaster; member
    Smithfield Town Council.

  =Dempsey, Patrick=, Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dempsey, William P.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Dennison, Joseph A.=, of law firm, Coakley & Dennison, Pemberton
    Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Desmond, J. J.=, 565 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Desmond, Jeremiah J.=, Norwich, Conn.

  =Desmond, John F.=, civil engineer, 83 Merrimac Street, Haverhill,
    Mass.

  =Devine, P. A.=, 100 Central Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Devlin, James H.=, 27 Farnsworth St., Boston, Mass.

  =Dignam, M. A.= (D. D. S.), 295 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Dillon, Capt. Moses=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Dillon, Thomas J.= (M. D.), 121 Vernon Street, Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Dixon, Richard=, Equitable Life, 100 Broadway, New York City.

  =Doherty, James L.=, 131 Bowdoin Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Doherty, Philip J.=, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; lawyer; has
    served several terms in the Massachusetts Legislature; in 1886 was
    nominee for Speaker of the House.

  =Dolan, Patrick J.=, 901 Garfield Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

  =Donahoe, D. J.=, of Donahoe Brothers, manufacturers, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donahoe, Dr. Florence=, 1134 Eighth Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =Donahoe, Col. John P.=, Wilmington, Del.; National Commander, Union
    Veteran Legion; a member of the recent Constitutional Convention of
    the state.

  =Donahoe, Patrick=, _The Pilot_, Boston, Mass.

  =Donahue, Dan A.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Donahue, Hugh= (M. D.), 200 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Donahue, John J.=, Keene, N. H.

  =Donigan, Bernard E.=, 322 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.; formerly
    Postmaster at Orono, Me.

  =Donnellan, Col. John W.=, banker, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Donnelly, B. J.=, of Shea & Donnelly, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donnelly, Hon. Ignatius=, St. Paul, Minn.; upholder of the Baconian
    theory regarding Shakespeare’s works; twice elected
    Lieutenant-Governor of Minnesota; has been a Member of Congress.

  =Donnelly, Hugh J.=, 100 Central Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Donoghoe, Dr. D. F.=, 240 Maple Street, Holyoke, Mass.; member School
    Board.

  =Donovan, D. D.=, Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Co., Providence, R. I.

  =Donovan, Daniel=, 21 High Rock Street, Lynn, Mass.; an authority on
    heraldry, armorial bearings, etc., particularly as the same relate
    to Ireland.

  =Donovan, Daniel A.=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., manufacturers, 47–51
    Willow Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donovan, Col. Henry F.=, Chicago, Ill.; late Inspector-General
    Illinois National Guard; served five terms as President of the
    County Board of Education; proprietor of the _Chicago Eagle_.

  =Donovan, Dr. James A.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Donovan, Joseph=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Donovan, M. F.=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., 47–51 Willow Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Donovan, Michael R.= (M. D.), 128 South Common Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Donovan, Timothy=, of D. A. Donovan & Co., 47–51 Willow Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Donovan, William H.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Doogue, Luke J.=, East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.

  =Doogue, William=, Superintendent of public grounds, Boston, Mass.

  =Doogue, William J.=, 154 East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Doolittle, James G.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Doran, John=, of the law firm, McGuinness & Doran, Providence, R. I.

  =Doran, Patrick L.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Dore, John P.=, 374 Dudley Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Dowd, Frederick C.=, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Dowd, Michael=, Tacoma, Wash.

  =Dowd, Michael J.=, 31–39 Merrimack Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Dowd, Peter A.=, 95 Milk Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dowling, M. J.=, Renville, Minn.

  =Dowling, Rev. Austin=, Providence, R. I.

  =Downey, Dr. Charles J.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Downey, Daniel=, 50 Piedmont Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Doyle, Alfred L.=, 14 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, James=, 50 Front Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, John F.=, 45 William Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, Col. John F.=, Jr., 14 West 87th Street, New York City.

  =Doyle, John M.=, 14 South Third Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Driscoll, Hon. C. T.=, Mayor of New Haven, Conn.

  =Driscoll, Florence F.=, 56 Adams Street, Portland, Me.

  =Drum, John D.=, Pemberton Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Drummond, Michael J.=, 148 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =Duff, Dr. John=, 5 Dexter Row, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Duff, John=, 35 Purchase Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Duffy, Arthur E.=, 39 Ash Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Duggan, John T.= (M. D.), Worcester, Mass.

  =Dunn, Edward P.=, 12 Lincoln Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Dunn, Hon. Robert C.=, State Auditor, Capitol Building, St. Paul,
    Minn.; publisher, Princeton, Minn., _Union_.

  =Dunne, F. L.=, 328 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Dunnigan, D. G.=, publisher, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Durac, Patrick H.=, Barstow, Ward County, Texas.

  =Dwyer, M. J.=, Boston, Mass.

  =Dyer, Dr. William H.=, Dover, N. H.

  =Dyer, Hon. Elisha=, Governor of Rhode Island.

  =Early, James=, Deputy Sheriff, Worcester, Mass.

  =Egan, James T.=, of the law firm, Gorman & Egan, Banigan Building,
    Providence, R. I.

  =Egan, Maurice F.= (LL. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  =Egan, Rev. M. H.=, Rector Church of the Sacred Heart, Lebanon, N. H.

  =Ellard, George W.=, 180 Lisbon Street, Lewiston, Me.

  =Elston, A. A.=, Preston Street, Somerville, Mass.

  =Emmet, Dr. J. Duncan=, 89 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Emmet, Robert=, 89 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Emmet, Dr. Thomas Addis=, 89 Madison Avenue, New York City;
    grandnephew of Robert Emmet, the Irish patriot.

  =English, Hon. Thomas Dunn= (LL. D.), 57 State Street, Newark, N. J.;
    ex-Member of Congress.

  =Esler, Frederic B.=, Union Surety Co., Dun Building, 290 Broadway,
    New York City.

  =Fahey, Rev. John T.=, Fall River, Mass.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph D.=, 789 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Fallon, Hon. Joseph P.=, 170 East 121st Street, New York City.

  =Fallon, Michael F.= (M. D.), 9 Portland Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Farrell, Edward D.=, 329 West 50th Street, New York City.

  =Farrell, Henry W.= (M. D.), 1913 Westminster Street, Providence, R.
    I.

  =Farrell, J. T.= (M. D.), 1913 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Farrell, John F.=, 45 Lake Avenue, Albany, N. Y.

  =Farrell, John P.=, 230 Grove Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Farrell, Joseph A.=, 598 Madison Avenue, Albany, N. Y.

  =Farrell, William=, Carnation Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Farrelly, Frank T.=, 424 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Farrelly, Patrick=, American News Co., New York City.

  =Farrelly, Stephen=, American News Co., New York City.

  =Fay, Martin=, 55 Bainbridge Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Feehan, Rev. Daniel F.=, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =Feeley, William J.=, treasurer of The W. J. Feeley Co., silversmiths
    and manufacturing jewelers, 185 Eddy Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Feenan, Bernard=, 85 Harbor Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Ferguson, Dr. Farquhar=, 20 West 38th Street, New York City.

  =Field, Hon. John H.=, 27 High Street, Nashua, N. H.; State Senator.

  =Finerty, Hon. John F.=, 69 Dearborn Street, Chicago, Ill.; Editor of
    _The Citizen_; ex-Member of Congress.

  =Finn, Rev. Thomas J.=, St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church, Derby, Conn.

  =Finnigan, James C.=, 139 Broad Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Finnigan, Patrick J.= (M. D.), 361 Cambridge Street, East Cambridge,
    Mass.

  =Finnigan, Thomas J.=, 121 Somerset Street, Bangor, Me.; member of the
    Park Commission.

  =Fitzgerald, David E.=, 179 Church Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Fitzgerald, Rev. E. J.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Fitzgerald, Edmund P.=, 88 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Fitzgerald, Patrick J.=, 44 Nichols Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Fitzgerald, William T.=, High Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Fitzmaurice, Charles R.=, Rossland, British Columbia.

  =Fitzpatrick, Daniel E.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Fitzpatrick, Edward=, editorial department of _The Times_,
    Louisville, Ky.

  =Fitzpatrick, J. M.=, 120 West 59th Street, New York City.

  =Fitzpatrick, John B.=, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; was for
    several years an officer of the Massachusetts Supreme Court.

  =Fitzpatrick, Thomas B.=, of the wholesale dry goods firm of Brown,
    Durrell & Co., Boston, Mass.

  =Fitzpatrick, Rev. William H.=, 2221 Dorchester Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =Fitzsimons, Hon. James M.=, Chief Justice of the City Court, New
    York.

  =Flaherty, Thomas H.=, 62 Gray Street, Portland, Me.

  =Flanagan, Dr. Andrew J.=, 29 George Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Flannery, Capt. John=, Savannah, Ga.; of John Flannery & Co., cotton
    factors and commission merchants.

  =Flatley, Joseph P.=, 916 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Flatley, P. J.=, lawyer, Tremont Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Flatley, Rev. John=, Rector St. Peter’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Cambridge, Mass.

  =Flynn, Hon. Joseph J.=, Opera House, Lawrence, Mass.; a State
    Senator.

  =Flynn, Rev. James A.=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Flynn, Thomas J.=, 18–20 Essex Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Fogarty, James A.=, New Haven, Conn.

  =Fogarty, Jeremiah W.=, assessors’ department, City Hall, Boston,
    Mass.; Secretary of the Charitable Irish Society (founded 1737).

  =Foley, Bernard=, 39 Edgewood Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Foley, Frank W.=, 284 Grand Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  =Foy, Julius L.=, 408–409 Continental Bank Building, St. Louis, Mo.

  =Frawley, John P.=, 73 Main Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Gaffney, T. St. John=, 40 Wall Street, New York City.

  =Gallagher, Cornelius J.=, 271 State Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Gallagher, Hugh T.=, 11 Birch Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Galligan, Edward F.= (M. D.), 63 Washington Street, Taunton, Mass.

  =Gallivan, Maurice=, 58 Dracut Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  =Galvin, Rev. John B.=, Rector St. Ann’s Church, Somerville, Mass.

  =Galvin, John E.=, 14 Bailey Street, Dorchester, Mass.

  =Gargan, Thomas J.=, ex-President Boston Charitable Irish Society
    (founded 1737); delivered the oration for the city, July 4, 1885;
    served several terms in the Massachusetts Legislature; member of the
    law firm, Gargan & Keating, Pemberton Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Garrigan, Rev. Philip J.=, Catholic University, Washington, D. C.

  =Garvan, Hon. Patrick=, President Park Commission, 236 Farmington
    Avenue, Hartford, Conn.

  =Garvey, Patrick J.=, lawyer, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Gavegan, Matthew=, 57 Prospect Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Gavin, Michael=, of M. Gavin & Co., wholesale grocers and cotton
    factors, 232–234 Front Street, Memphis, Tenn.

  =Geoghegan, Charles A.=, 537–539 West Broadway, New York City.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Geoghegan, Joseph G.=, 20 East 73d Street, New York City.

  =Geoghegan, Stephen J.=, 20 East 73d Street, New York City.

  =Gibbons, T. F.=, with Theodore M. Roche & Co., 203 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Giblin, William=, Mercantile Safe Deposit Co., 120 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Gilbride, Patrick=, of O’Donnell & Gilbride, Lowell, Mass.

  =Gilligan, Rev. Michael=, Medford, Mass.

  =Gilman, John E.=, 28 Court Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Gilroy, Hon. Thomas F.=, New York City.

  =Gleason, Joseph J.=, 142 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =Glynn, John W.=, Manager the Mansion House, Springfield, Mass.

  =Glynn, Thomas H.=, Water and Federal Streets, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Goggin, John F.=, 57 Locust Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Goodwin, John= (life member), 70–72 West 23d Street, New York City.

  =Goff, Hon. John W.=, 319 West 104th Street, New York City.

  =Gorman, Hon. Charles E.=, Banigan Building, Providence, R. I.;
    ex-Speaker of the Rhode Island House of Representatives; ex-U. S.
    District Attorney; member of the recent Commission to Revise the
    State Constitution of Rhode Island.

  =Gorman, Dennis J.=, 62 Forest Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Gorman, James J.=, 406 Spring Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Gorman, William=, Stephen Girard Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Graham, Andrew M.=, 27 Middle Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Graham, Rev. John J.=, St. James’s Roman Catholic Church, Haverhill,
    Mass.

  =Grainger, William H.= (M. D.), 408 Meridian Street, East Boston,
    Mass.

  =Gregg, Matthew C.=, 213 Water Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Griffin, John=, 110 State Street, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Griffin, Martin I. J.=, 711 Sansome Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Griffin, Rt. Rev. Mgr.= (D. D.), St. John’s Church, Worcester, Mass.

  =Griffis, Rev. William Elliot= (D. D.), Ithaca, N. Y.; formerly pastor
    of the First Reformed Church, Schenectady, N. Y., and subsequently
    of the Shawmut Congregational Church, Boston, Mass.; some years ago
    went to Japan to organize schools on the American plan; held chair
    of physics in the Imperial University at Tokio; an author of note.

  =Grimes, Robert W.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Guiney, John=, 9 Harvey Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Hall, Edward A.=, member of the Connecticut Valley Historical
    Society, 66 Spring Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Halley, William=, publisher of _The Vindicator_, Austin, Ill.

  =Haltigan, Patrick J.=, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C.

  =Hanley, Frank L.=, Olneyville, R. I.

  =Hanlon, Marcus=, Room 234, 641 Washington Street, New York City.

  =Hanrahan, Dr. John D.=, Rutland, Vt., Surgeon in U. S. Navy during
    Civil War; ex-Postmaster of Rutland; first President Rutland County
    Medical and Surgical Society.

  =Hanrahan, William J.=, 200 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Harney, Hubert J.=, of the manufacturing firm Harney Bros., 103
    Washington Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Harney, Patrick J.=, of Harney Bros., 103 Washington Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Harney, Thomas F.=, of Harney Bros., 103 Washington Street, Lynn,
    Mass.

  =Harrigan, M. R.=, _Bangor Commercial_, Bangor, Me.

  =Harriman, Dr. Patrick H.=, Norwich, Conn.

  =Harrington, Rev. J. C.=, Rector of St. Joseph’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Lynn, Mass.

  =Harrington, Rev. John M.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Harrington, Thomas F.= (M. D.), Lowell, Mass.

  =Harris, Charles N.=, 229 Broadway, New York City.

  =Harson, M. Joseph=, Providence, R. I.; a founder of Phi Kappa Sigma
    Fraternity; member of the Rhode Island Historical Society.

  =Hart, Frank M.=, Passaic, N. J.

  =Hart, James A.=, Orange, N. J.

  =Hart, J. G.=, 965 Second Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Harty, Rev. John=, Rector of the Church of the Sacred Heart,
    Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Hastings, Hon. Daniel H.=, recently Governor of Pennsylvania,
    Harrisburg, Pa.

  =Haverty, Frank=, 14 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Hayes, John=, Concord Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Hayes, Dr. John F.=, Waterbury, Conn.; member of the Board of
    Education.

  =Hayes, Hon. John J.=, 8 Oliver Street, Boston, Mass.; has been a
    member of the Boston School Board and a State Senator.

  =Hayes, Dr. S. W.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Heagney, Michael J.=, 2 Hancock Street, Linden district, Malden,
    Mass.

  =Healey, Col. D. F.=, Manchester, N. H.; served on the staff of
    Governor Goodell of New Hampshire; was high sheriff of Hillsborough
    County, N. H., for over twelve years; supervisor of census, 1900,
    for N. H.

  =Healey, Jere=, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Healy, John F.=, Davis, Tucker County, W. Va.

  =Healy, Col. John G.=, 117 Sherman Avenue, New Haven, Conn.; served in
    Ninth Connecticut Regiment during Civil War; has been first
    Vice-President of the Nineteenth Army Corps Association.

  =Healy, John A.=, 85 West Hollis Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Healy, Richard=, President Bay State Savings Bank, Worcester, Mass.

  =Hearn, Edward L.=, State Deputy Knights of Columbus, South
    Framingham, Mass.

  =Heery, Col. Luke=, 99 Fairmount Street, Lowell, Mass.; recently on
    the staff of Governor Waller of Connecticut.

  =Heery, James=, 99 Fairmount Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Heffern, Peter J.= (D. D. S.), 255 Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.;
    member of the State Board of Registration in Dentistry.

  =Hegerty, Stephen J.=, Hallowell, Me.

  =Henebry, Rev. Richard= (Ph. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D.
    C.

  =Hennessy, Dr. Daniel=, 5 High Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Hennessy, M. E.=, _Daily Globe_, Boston, Mass.

  =Henry, Charles T.=, 120 Liberty Street, New York City.

  =Hickey, James G.= (life member), Manager U. S. Hotel, Boston, Mass.

  =Hickey, Michael J.=, 80 Emerson Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Hickey, Rev. William A.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =Hicks, Michael=, 147 West 121st Street, New York City.

  =Higgins, Francis=, 12 East 34th Street, New York City.

  =Hogan, Capt. Thomas J.=, 225 Middle Street, Portland, Me.

  =Hogan, Daniel W.=, 40 Cushing Street, Medford, Mass.

  =Hogan, John W.=, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Hogan, Very Rev. John B.= (S. S., D. D.), President of St. John’s
    Ecclesiastical Seminary, Brighton (Boston), Mass.

  =Holland, D. A.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Holland, Dennis J.=, Industrial Trust Building, Providence, R. I.

  =Holland, John P.=, 65 Nelson Place, Newark, N. J.; inventor of the
    submarine torpedo boat.

  =Hopkins, William=, Assistant Day Editor _Boston Globe_; the talented
    “Bud Brier.”

  =Horigan, Cornelius=, Biddeford, Me.; ex-Member Maine Legislature.

  =Howard, Rev. J. J.=, St. Peter’s Roman Catholic Church, Worcester,
    Mass.

  =Howard, T. J.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Howes, Osborne=, Secretary of the Board of Fire Underwriters, 55
    Kilby Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Howley, Edward B.=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Hoye, John A.=, 40 Third Street, Dover, N. H.

  =Hughes, Rev. Christopher=, Fall River, Mass.

  =Hurley, Rev. E. F.=, Rector of St. Dominic’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Portland, Me.

  =Hurley, John E.=, care of Remington Printing Co., Providence, R. I.

  =Hyde, William A.=, U. S. Custom House, Boston, Mass.

  =Johnson, James G.=, 301 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =Jordan, M. J.=, lawyer, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Kane, Dr. John H.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Kane, John P.=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Kavanagh, Rev. Patrick J.=, Lexington, Mass.

  =Keating, James E.= (M. D.), 143 Pine Street, Portland, Me.

  =Keating, Patrick M.=, of the law firm, Gargan & Keating, Pemberton
    Square, Boston, Mass.

  =Keating, William H.=, 15 Vaughn Street, Portland, Me.

  =Keefe, Dennis F.= (D. D. S.), Butler Exchange, Providence, R. I.

  =Keefe, Patrick H.= (M. D.), 257 Benefit Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Keegan, Rev. James J.=, Woburn, Mass.

  =Keely, George=, 270 Brackett Street, Portland, Me.

  =Kehoe, John B.=, Portland, Me.

  =Keleher, T. D.=, Disbursing Clerk for office of auditor to the
    Post-office Department, Washington, D. C.

  =Kelley, Daniel B.=, 21 Windsor Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Kelley, J. D. Jerrold=, Lieutenant-Commander U. S. N.; was recently
    attached to the battleship _Texas_; address, care Navy Department,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Kelley, Patrick=, 19 Davidson Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Kelliher, Michael W.= (M. D.), Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Kelly, James=, 13 Greenleaf Street, Portland, Me.

  =Kelly, James E.=, Ogdensburg, N. Y.

  =Kelly, John F.=, 284 West Housatonic Avenue, Pittsfield, Mass.

  =Kelly, John P.= (D. D. S.), 12 Essex Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Kelly, Michael F.= (M. D.), Fall River, Mass.

  =Kelly, William J.=, 9 Dove Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Kelly, William J.=, Kittery, Me.

  =Kendricken, Hon. Paul H.=, 75 Maple Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.;
    ex-State Senator; member of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion.

  =Kenefick, Owen A.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Kennedy, Charles F.=, Brewer, Me.

  =Kennedy, Dr. Francis M.=, 446 County Street, New Bedford, Mass.;
    trustee of Public Library.

  =Kennedy, Joseph P.=, 311 South Water Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Kennedy, Hon. P. J.=, 165 Webster Street, East Boston, Mass.; has
    been a State Senator.

  =Kennedy, P. J.=, 322 and 324 Nicollet Avenue, Minneapolis, Minn.

  =Kenney, James W.=, Treasurer Union Brewing Co., Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Kent, Pierce=, 356 East 57th Street, New York City; recently
    lieutenant in the 69th Regiment.

  =Kerr, Dr. James=, 1711 H Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =Kiernan, Rev. Owen=, Rector Church of the Immaculate Conception, Fall
    River, Mass.

  =Kiernan, Patrick=, 18 East 83d Street, New York City.

  =Kiley, Daniel F.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Killoren, Hon. Andrew=, Dover, N. H.; ex-State Senator.

  =Kilroy, Patrick=, 475 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Kilroy, Philip= (M. D.), Glen-Rath, Springfield, Mass.

  =King, Thomas E.=, 104 Howard Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Kinsela, John F.=, 509 Gorham Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Kirby, John P.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Kirmes, Victor C.=, Melrose, Mass.

  =Kivel, Hon. John=, Dover, N. H.

  =Lally, Frank=, 161 Saratoga Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Lamb, Matthew B.=, 516 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lamson, Col. Daniel S.=, Weston, Mass.

  =Lane, Rev. Florence A.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Lane, Thomas J.=, 120 Havre Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =Lannan, P. H.=, _The Tribune_ Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Lappin, J. J.=, 7 Grant Street, Portland, Me.

  =Larkin, Very Rev. Thomas J.= (S. M.), President of All Hallows
    College, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =Lavelle, John=, Inquiry Division, Post-office, Cleveland, Ohio.

  =Lawler, Thomas B.=, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City; with Ginn & Co.,
    publishers; Librarian and Archivist of the Society; member, American
    Oriental Society and of the Archæological Institute of America.

  =Lawless, Hon. Joseph T.=, Secretary of State, Richmond, Va.

  =Leahey, Dr. George A.=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Leary, Daniel E.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Leary, Denis F.=, 254 Central Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Lee, Hugh J.=, on staff of _The Times_, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Lee, Rev. Robert F.=, 156 Danforth Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lee, Thomas C.=, 277 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Lenehan, John J.=, 165 Broadway, New York City.

  =Lenihan, Rev. M. C.=, Marshalltown, Iowa.

  =Lennox, George W.=, manufacturer, Duncan Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Leonard, James F.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Leonard, Thomas F.=, musical director, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Linehan, James C.=, 18 Foster Street, Peabody, Mass.

  =Linehan, Hon. John C.=, State Insurance Commissioner, Concord, N. H.

  =Linehan, John J.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Linehan, Rev. Timothy P.=, Rector of St. Mary’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Biddeford, Me.; was for ten years Rector of the Cathedral,
    Portland, Me.

  =Linehan, Timothy P.=, Wolfe Tavern, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Littleton, Stephen F.=, 10 Riverside Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Long, M. D.=, O’Neill, Neb.

  =Lovell, David B.= (M. D.), 32 Pearl Street, Worcester, Mass.; member
    New England Ophthalmological Society.

  =Lowe, Hon. Robert A.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Lowery, Dr. James E.=, Sopris, Las Animas County, Colorado.

  =Lowery, William H.=, 86 Adams Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lowney, Rev. T. B.=, Marlborough, Mass.

  =Lucey, Rev. Thomas P.=, Northampton, Mass.

  =Lyman, William=, 51 East 122d Street, New York City.

  =Lynch, Charles E.=, 367 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Lynch, Cornelius J.=, 331 Pine Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Lynch, J. H.=, Fort Hamilton, N. Y.

  =Lynch, James M.=, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Lynch, John E.=, Principal Thomas Street School, Director Free Public
    Library, Worcester, Mass.

  =Lynch, Gen. John J.=, 145 Spring Street, Portland, Me.

  =Lynch, Dr. M. H.=, Chicopee Falls, Mass.

  =Lynch, Thomas J.=, Augusta, Me.; treasurer Augusta Board of Trade.

  =Lynn, Hon. Wauhope=, 280 Broadway, New York City.

  =Lyons, Rev. Francis X.=, Laconia, N. H.

  =Lyons, Rev. John J.=, Manchester, N. H.

  =Lyons, Michael R.=, 243 Main Street, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =Lyons, Dr. W. H. A.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =MacDonnell, John T. F.=, Holyoke, Mass.

  =MacGoldrick, Rev. D. J.=, St. Thomas College, Scranton, Pa.

  =Mack, Hon. William A. M.=, 36 Third Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  =Macguire, Constantine J.= (M. D.), 120 East 60th Street, New York
    City.

  =Magee, John A.= (M. D.), 203 Haverhill Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Magenis, James P.=, care of Dickson & Knowles, 53 State Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Magner, Thomas=, Sup’t Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Rutland, Vt.

  =Magrane, P. B.=, dry goods merchant, Lynn, Mass.

  =Maguire, John=, Butte City, Montana.

  =Maguire, John C.=, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =Maher, James J.=, Augusta, Me.

  =Maher, Dr. Stephen J.=, 212 Orange Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Mahoney, Daniel D.=, of D. D. Mahoney & Son, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Mahoney, James=, Hotel Nottingham, Boston, Mass.

  =Mahoney, James V.=, Commissioner of the Commercial Association, Sioux
    City, Iowa.

  =Mahoney, John P. S.=, Central Building, Lawrence, Mass.; recently
    President of the Common Council.

  =Mahoney, Rev. Martin=, Mendota, Minn.

  =Mahoney, M. J.=, Hampshire and Bradford Streets, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Mahoney, Dr. Michael P.=, 63 East Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Malloy, Gen. A. G.=, El Paso, Texas; a veteran of the Mexican and
    Civil Wars; during the latter conflict he was successively Major,
    Colonel, and Brigadier-General; has been Collector of the Port of
    Galveston.

  =Malone, John=, Actors’ Society of America, 1432 Broadway, New York
    City.

  =Maloney, Cornelius=, publisher, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Maloney, Dr. M. W.=, Woonsocket, R. I.

  =Maloney, Dr. Thomas E.=, 278 Franklin Street, Fall River, Mass.

  =Maneely, John=, 309–311 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Mangan, John J.= (M. D.), 55 North Common Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Manning, Timothy T.=, care of James & Marra, Springfield, Mass.

  =Mannix, Cornelius A.=, 40 Sheridan Street, Portland, Me.

  =Marshall, Rev. George F.=, Rector of St. Paul’s Roman Catholic
    Church, Milford, N. H.

  =Martin, Rev. Farrell= (D. D.), Waterbury, Conn.

  =Martin, Dr. James F.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Martin, Hon. John B.=, 762 Fourth Street, South Boston, Mass.

  =May, Henry A.=, Roslindale, Mass.

  =McAdoo, Hon. William=, Assistant Secretary of the Navy (under
    Cleveland), New York City.

  =McAleer, George=, Treasurer Bay State Savings Bank, Worcester, Mass.

  =McAlevy, John F.=, 26–50 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =McAuliffe, John F.=, with the Livermore & Knight Co., Westminster
    Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McCaffrey, Hugh=, Fifth and Berks Streets, Philadelphia, Pa.

  =McCann, Daniel E.=, 37 Preble Street, Portland, Me.

  =McCarrick, James W.=, Clyde’s Steam Lines, Norfolk, Va.

  =McCarthy, Charles=, Jr., Portland, Me.

  =McCarthy, Eugene T.=, 343 Union Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =McCarthy, Rev. Jeremiah=, Gardiner, Me.

  =McCarthy, John H.=, 8 West 125th Street, New York City.

  =McCarthy, Joseph=, Editorial Department _Daily Globe_, Boston, Mass.

  =McCarthy, Patrick J.=, Industrial Trust Building, Providence, R. I.

  =McCarthy, T. A.= (D. D. S.), Main Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =McCaughey, Bernard=, 93–105 North Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =McClallen, Edward C.=, Rutland, Vt.; of the fifth American
    generation.

  =McCluskey, James J.=, 34 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McConnell, James E.=, Fitchburg, Mass.; candidate for
    Lieutenant-Governor of Massachusetts, 1896.

  =McConway, William=, manufacturer, Pittsburg, Pa.

  =McCoy, Rev. John J.=, Permanent Rector of the Church of the Holy
    Name, Chicopee, Mass.

  =McCrystal, Maj. Edward T.=, 69th Regiment Infantry, N. G. N. Y., New
    York City.

  =McCullough, Edward= (M. D.), 123 Union Street, Bangor, Me.

  =McCullough, John=, 55 Maxfield Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =McCusker, John F.= (M. D.), 96 Broad Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McDermott, Rev. William A.=, Redwood, N. Y.; under the _nom-de-plume_
    “Walter Lecky” he has produced much literary work.

  =McDermott, Thomas J.=, Biddeford, Me.; proprietor of Biddeford Iron
    and Brass Works.

  =McDonald, Dr. Edward W.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =McDonald, Dr. J. A.=, 116 Main Street, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =McDonald, John=, 70 Leicester Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McDonald, Mitchell C.=, Paymaster U. S. N.; recently attached to the
    battleship _Texas_; address, care Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

  =McDonnell, Thomas F. I.=, 17 Custom House Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McDonnell, Thomas H.=, School Street, Quincy, Mass.

  =McDonough, Edward J.= (M. D.), 333 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =McDonough, Hon. John J.=, Fall River, Mass.

  =McDonough, Rev. M. C.=, Bath, Me.

  =McEleney, William=, 45 Cedar Street, Portland, Me.

  =McElroy, Rev. Charles J.=, Rector St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Derby, Conn.

  =McEvoy, John W.=, 137 Central Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McGauran, Michael S.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =McGillicuddy, Hon. D. J.=, Lewiston, Me.; Mayor 1887–’90.

  =McGinnis, Rev. John J.=, Sandford, Me.

  =McGinniss, Lieut.-Col. John R.=, ordnance corps, U. S. A.; care War
    Department, Washington, D. C.

  =McGlinchy, J. H.=, 128 Danforth Street, Portland, Me.

  =McGoey, J.=, 78 Worth Street, New York City.

  =McGolrick, Rev. E. J.=, 84 Herbert Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =McGovern, Joseph P.=, 193 Green Street, New York City.

  =McGowan, James=, 6 Wall Street, New York City.

  =McGowan, Joseph A.=, 263 Congress Street, Portland, Me.

  =McGowan, P. F.=, Board of Education, New York City.

  =McGrath, Rev. Christopher=, 264 Washington Street, Somerville, Mass.;
    Rector St. Joseph’s Church.

  =McGuinness, Bernard=, 32 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =McGuinness, Hon. Edward D.=, Providence, R. I.; has served two terms
    as Mayor of Providence, and two as Secretary of State of Rhode
    Island.

  =McGuire, Edward J.=, 62 Wall Street, New York City.

  =McGuire, Rev. Francis D.=, The Cathedral, Albany, N. Y.

  =McGurk, Charles J.=, City Auditor, New Bedford, Mass.

  =McGurrin, Frank E.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =McIntyre, John F.=, lawyer, 220 Broadway, New York City.

  =McKechnie, Rev. James H.=, Worcester, Mass.

  =McKechnie, William G.=, 366 Walnut Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =McKellegett, George F.=, 27 Tremont Row, Boston, Mass.

  =McKeon, Francis P.=, Millbury Street School, Worcester, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, Edward A.=, 16 Pemberton Square, Boston, Mass.; was for
    several years clerk of the Massachusetts House of Representatives.

  =McLaughlin, Henry V.= (M. D.), 29 Kent Street, Brookline, Mass.

  =McLaughlin, James M.=, 56 Bowdoin Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.;
    Supervisor of Music in Boston Public Schools; author of “The
    Educational Music System.”

  =McLaughlin, Marcus J.=, 250 West 25th Street, New York City.

  =McLaughlin, Thomas=, Hallowell, Me.

  =McLaughlin, William H.=, 24 C Street, Knightville, Portland, Me.

  =McLaughlin, William I.=, State Mutual Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =McMahon, Edward J.=, Walker Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =McMahon, James=, 51 Chambers Street, New York City.

  =McMahon, James H.=, 17 Main Street, Fitchburg, Mass.

  =McMahon, Rev. John W.= (D. D.), Rector St. Mary’s Church, Charlestown
    (Boston), Mass.

  =McManus, Col. John=, 145–147 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.;
    served on the staff of Governor Davis of Rhode Island.

  =McManus, Michael=, of McManus & Co., clothiers, 670 Washington
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =McManus, Gen. Thomas=, 333 Main Street, Hartford, Conn.

  =McManus, Rev. Michael T.=, Rector St. Mary’s Church, Brookline, Mass.

  =McMunn, R. H.=, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =McNamee, John H. H.=, 51 Frost Street, North Cambridge, Mass.

  =McNeely, Richard=, 309 East 42d Street, New York City.

  =McNeirny, Michael J.=, Gloucester, Mass.

  =McNulty, Rev. John J.=, 92 West 6th Street, South Boston, Mass.

  =McQuade, E. A.=, 75–77 Market Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McQuaid, Rev. William P.=, Rector St. James Church, Harrison Avenue,
    Boston, Mass.

  =McQueeney, Henry J.=, of the Post-office staff, Lawrence, Mass.

  =McSweeney, Edward F.=, Assistant U. S. Commissioner of Immigration,
    Ellis Island, N. Y.

  =McSweeny, Rev. Edward=, Rector St. John’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Bangor, Me.

  =McVey, Edward D.=, 519 Westford Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =McVicar, P. A.=, Auburndale, Mass.

  =McWilliams, Daniel A.=, 16 Hamilton Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Meany, Thomas J.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Mehan, Charles=, El Paso, Texas.

  =Mehegan, Daniel J.= (M. D.), 31 Broadway, Taunton, Mass.

  =Melden, P. M.=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Mellen, Hon. W. M. E.=, ex-Mayor, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Milholland, John E.=, Tubular Despatch Co., Tribune Building, New
    York City.

  =Millea, William H.=, 154 Washington Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Minahan, Hon. T. B.=, Board of Trade, Columbus, Ohio.

  =Miskella, James=, 10 Chase Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Molloy, Hugh J.=, State Normal School, Lowell, Mass.

  =Moloney, T. W.=, of Butler & Moloney, counselors-at-law, Rutland, Vt.

  =Monaghan, Rt. Rev. John J.= (D. D.), Bishop of Wilmington, Del.

  =Monohan, Michael=, 874 Broadway, New York City.

  =Mooney, J. G.=, 154 Exchange Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Mooney, John A.=, 353 West 27th Street, New York City.

  =Moore, Dr. James A.=, 223 Grand Avenue, New Haven, Conn.

  =Moore, O’Brien=, recently of the Washington (D. C.) bureau of the
    _St. Louis Republic_; publisher of the _Daily Gazette_, Charleston,
    W. Va.

  =Moran, Col. James=, Providence, R. I.; served in the Fifth R. I.
    Heavy Artillery during the Civil War; recently commanded the Second
    Regiment, Rhode Island Militia.

  =Moran, Dr. James=, 333 West 51st Street, New York City.

  =Moran, Thomas=, Jr., Biddeford, Me.

  =Moran, William=, Biddeford, Me.

  =Morrissey, William T.=, Portsmouth, N. H.

  =Morrissey, Very Rev. Andrew= (C. S. C.), president of the University
    of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind.

  =Morrison, Francis M.=, 492 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Moseley, Edward A.=, Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Moses, George H.=, editor _The Monitor_, Concord, N. H. (U. S.
    Senator Chandler’s paper.)

  =Moyes, Rev. David= (D. C. L.), Ashburnham, Mass.

  =Moynahan, Bartholomew=, 120 Broadway, New York City.

  =Moynihan, Michael A.=, Portsmouth, N. H.; U. S. Internal Revenue
    Office.

  =Mulcahy, Rev. John=, Arlington, Mass.

  =Mulholland, Gen. St. Clair A.=, U. S. Pension Agent, Philadelphia,
    Pa.

  =Mullaney, Rev. John F.=, Rector Church of St. John the Baptist,
    Syracuse, N. Y.

  =Mullen, Hugh=, of Brown, Durrell & Co., Boston, Mass.

  =Mullen, John T.=, 23 Aborn Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Mulligan, B. J.=, 37 Warren Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Mundy, Rev. John F.=, 55 Norfolk Street, Cambridgeport, Mass.

  =Murphy, Chas. B.=, Augusta, Me.

  =Murphy, D. P., Jr.=, 31 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Murphy, Daniel D.= (M. D.), Amesbury, Mass.

  =Murphy, David E.=, 8 Perley Street, Concord, N. H.

  =Murphy, Edward J.=, 327 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, Frank J.=, lock box 161, Olean, N. Y.

  =Murphy, Fred C.=, Dickinson Building, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, J. H.=, attorney-at-law, Portland, Oregon.

  =Murphy, Hon. John R.=, Boston, Mass.; ex-State Senator of
    Massachusetts.

  =Murphy, James=, real estate and insurance, Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Murphy, James=, 42 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Murphy, James R.=, lawyer, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murphy, John A.=, 276 Union Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Murphy, Thomas=, 144 Elm Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Murphy, William=, 2 Lewis Park, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Murray, Capt. John F.=, police department, Cambridge, Mass.;
    residence, 9 Avon Street.

  =Murray, Frank E.=, 47 Park Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Murray, Joseph T.=, 131 Pearl Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Murray, Michael J.=, attorney-at-law, 27 School Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Murray, Thomas Hamilton=, Secretary-general of the Society, editor
    _The Evening Call_, 77 Main Street, Woonsocket, R. I.

  =Nammack, Dr. Charles E.=, 42 East 29th Street, New York City.

  =Naphen, Hon. Henry F.=, 42 Court Street, Boston, Mass.; member of
    Congress.

  =Neagle, Rev. Richard=, Malden, Mass.

  =Neagle, Thomas J.=, 66 Franklin Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Neilon, John F.=, Saco, Me.

  =Nicholson, George=, 40 Oak Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =Nolan, Frank F.=, 224 Thames Street, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Beirne, Gen. James R.=, 357 West 117th Street, New York City.

  =O’Brien, Capt. Lawrence=, New Haven, Conn.

  =O’Brien, Charles J.=, 670 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Brien, Frank J.=, of Donigan & O’Brien, 322 Essex Street, Lawrence,
    Mass.; late a member of the City Council.

  =O’Brien, Hon. C. D.=, 212 Globe Building, St. Paul, Minn.; ex-Mayor
    of St. Paul.

  =O’Brien, James W.=, lawyer, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Brien, John D.=, Bank of Minnesota Building, St. Paul, Minn.; of
    the law firm Stevens, O’Brien, Cole & Albrecht.

  =O’Brien, Hon. Morgan J.=, 42 West 44th Street, New York City; a
    Justice of the Supreme Court.

  =O’Brien, Patrick=, 399 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Brien, Rev. James J.=, Somerville, Mass.; a son of the late Hon.
    Hugh O’Brien, Mayor of Boston.

  =O’Brien, Rev. Michael=, Rector St. Patrick’s Church, Lowell, Mass.

  =O’Brien, Thomas=, 155 Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =O’Brien, Very Rev. Michael C.=, 30 Cedar Street, Bangor, Me.;
    Vicar-General of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Portland.

  =O’Byrne, J. J.=, 206 57th Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.

  =O’Byrne, M. A.=, 370 West 118th Street, New York City.

  =O’Callaghan, John=, editorial department, _Daily Globe_, Boston,
    Mass.

  =O’Callaghan, P. J.=, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Callaghan, Rev. Denis= (D. D.), Rector St. Augustine’s Roman
    Catholic Church, South Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connell, Dr. J. C.=, U. S. Pension Office, Saginaw, Mich.

  =O’Connell, J. D.=, Bureau of Statistics, U. S. Treasury Department,
    Washington, D. C.

  =O’Connell, John=, 302 West End Avenue, New York City.

  =O’Connell, Timothy=, 140 State Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =O’Connor, Charles A.=, 135 Lawrence Street, Manchester, N. H.; member
    State Constitutional Convention; two terms in the State Legislature.

  =O’Connor, Charles J.=, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Connor, D. F.=, 341 Central Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =O’Connor, Dr. Joseph M.=, 204 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =O’Connor, Edward DeV.=, 4 Weybosset Street, Providence, R. I.

  =O’Connor, Francis=, 531 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Connor, James=, 37 Prospect Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =O’Connor, John D.=, The Washington Press, 18 Essex Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =O’Connor, Patrick=, 99 Mill Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =O’Conor, P. H.=, Washington Street, Peabody, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Rev. James H.=, Watertown, Conn., author of a recently
    published history of the Catholic diocese of Hartford, Conn.

  =O’Donnell, James J.=, 65 Taylor Street, Holyoke, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Hon. John B.=, ex-Mayor, Northampton, Mass.

  =O’Donnell, Rev. Philip J.=, 887 Shawmut Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Doherty, Hon. Matthew=, Louisville, Ky.

  =O’Doherty, Rev. James=, Rector St. James Roman Catholic Church,
    Haverhill, Mass.

  =O’Donoghue, Col. D. O’C.=, 75 Emery Street, Portland, Me.

  =O’Dowd, Michael=, 922 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =O’Driscoll, Daniel M.=, Western Union Telegraph Co., Charleston, S.
    C.

  =O’Dwyer, Hon. E. F.=, 37 West 76th Street, New York City.

  =O’Farrell, Charles=, 173 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., an
    earnest, scholarly worker in the Irish language movement.

  =O’Farrell, Col. P. A.=, Spokane, Wash.

  =O’Farrell, Patrick=, of O’Farrell, Fowler & O’Farrell, lawyers,
    Solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, 1425 New York Avenue, N.
    W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Farrell, Rev. Denis J.=, 7 North Square, Boston, Mass.; Rector St.
    Stephen’s Church.

  =O’Flaherty, John= (M. D.), Hartford, Conn.; served during the Civil
    War in Corcoran’s Legion as a member of the 170th Regiment, New York
    Volunteers.

  =O’Flynn, Thomas F.=, 25 Grosvenor Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Gorman, Hon. J. A.=, 312 West 54th Street, New York City.

  =O’Hart, John=, 1 Woodside, Vernon Avenue, Clontarf, Ireland; author
    of “O’Hart’s Irish Pedigrees,” “The Last Princes of Tara,” etc.

  =O’Hearn, William H.= (M. D.), 283 Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Keefe, Daniel T.= (M. D.), 183 Green Street, Jamaica Plain
    (Boston), Mass.

  =O’Keefe, Edmund=, Inspector Buildings, New Bedford, Mass.

  =O’Keefe, John A.=, lawyer, 25 Exchange Street, Lynn, Mass.; formerly
    Principal of the High School in that city; recently candidate for
    Attorney-General of Massachusetts.

  =O’Kennedy, J. J. Karbry= (LL. D.), 77 Broadway, New York City.

  =O’Loughlin, Patrick=, lawyer, 23 Court Street, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Mahoney, Daniel J.=, Essex Street, Lawrence, Mass.;
    ex-Superintendent of Streets.

  =O’Mahoney, Michael=, of Moulton & O’Mahoney, contractors, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =O’Malley, Rev. John=, Greenfield, Mass.

  =O’Malley, Thomas F.=, law office, 7 Hill Building, Somerville, Mass.

  =O’Neil, Hon. Joseph H.=, Boston, Mass.

  =O’Neil, James=, 521 7th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Neil, James=, Hampshire and Common Streets, Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Neil, Rev. J. L.= (O. P.), 871 Lexington Avenue, New York City.
    This is a life membership standing to the credit of “The Editor of
    _The Rosary Magazine_.” Father O’Neil was the first to represent the
    magazine in the organization.

  =O’Neill, Rev. Daniel H.=, 935 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =O’Neill, Rev. D. P.=, Westchester, N. Y.

  =O’Neill, Eugene C.=, 51 Lee Avenue, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Neill, James L.=, Franklin Street, Elizabeth, N. J.

  =O’Neill, John=, 131 Cook Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =O’Neill, John E.=, 53 Lee Avenue, Newport, R. I.; member of the Board
    of Aldermen; cashier New York and Boston Despatch Express Company.

  =O’Neill, Thomas J.=, The Aquidneck, Newport, R. I.

  =O’Neill, William F.=, Chicopee Falls, Mass.

  =O’Reilly, F. C.=, Orange, N. J.

  =O’Reilly, Luke F.=, 825 7th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.

  =O’Reilly, Rev. James T.= (O. S. A.), Rector St. Mary’s Church,
    Lawrence, Mass.

  =O’Reilly, Thomas B.=, Salt Lake City, Utah.

  =O’Rourke, Timothy=, 91 Scoville Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =O’Shea, J. F.= (M. D.), 116 Union Street, Lynn, Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, Hon. Edward F.=, City Engineer’s Office, Lawrence, Mass.;
    an ex-Senator.

  =O’Sullivan, Humphrey=, 105 Butterfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, James=, of O’Sullivan Bros., Merrimack Street, Lowell,
    Mass.

  =O’Sullivan, James T.=, real estate and insurance, Lawrence, Mass.;
    ex-City Marshal.

  =Palmer, Rev. Edmund B.=, 4 Peter Parley Street, Jamaica Plain
    (Boston), Mass.

  =Patterson, Rev. Geo. J.=, Rector St. Vincent’s Church, South Boston,
    Mass.

  =Payne, William E.=, New York City.

  =Penney, William M.=, 34 West 26th Street, New York City.

  =Perry, Dr. Charles=, P. O. Box 2977, New York City.

  =Phalen, Rev. Frank L.=, pastor Unitarian Church, Worcester, Mass.;
    chaplain of the First New Hampshire Regiment, U. S. Volunteers (war
    with Spain).

  =Phelan, Dr. Daniel J.=, 123 West 94th Street, New York City.

  =Phelan, James J.=, 66 West 85th Street, New York City.

  =Phelan, Rev. J.=, Rector St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church, Rock
    Valley, Iowa; recently editor of the _Northwestern Catholic_.

  =Philpott, Anthony J.=, _Daily Globe_, Boston, Mass.

  =Piggott, Michael=, 1634 Vermont Street, Quincy, Ill.

  =Pigott, Hon. James P.=, 179 Church Street, New Haven, Conn.;
    ex-Member of Congress.

  =Plunkett, Thomas=, 257 6th Street, East Liverpool, Ohio.

  =Power, James D.=, U. S. Custom House, New York City.

  =Power, Rev. James W.=, 47 East 129th Street, New York City.

  =Powers, Patrick H.=, President Emerson Piano Co., 110 Boylston
    Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Pulleyn, John J.=, Treasurer Catholic Club, 171 West 94th Street, New
    York City.

  =Quinlan, Daniel J.=, 53 East 127th Street, New York City.

  =Quinlan, Prof. Francis J.= (M. D., LL. D.), 33 West 38th Street, New
    York City; President New York Celtic Medical Society; late surgeon
    in the U. S. Indian service.

  =Quinlan, Col. James=, 116 Liberty Street, New York City.

  =Quinn, Hon. John=, 66 Broadway, New York City.

  =Quinn, Joseph F.=, 6 Broad Street Court, Salem, Mass.

  =Quinn, William H.=, Hallowell, Me.

  =Quinton, Major William=, U. S. A., care of War Department,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Radikin, Edward F.=, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Rafferty, Dr. James J.=, Worcester, Mass.

  =Ratigan, John B.=, Walker Building, Worcester, Mass.

  =Reardon, Edmund=, 24 Commerce Street, Boston, Mass.; residence,
    Cambridge, Mass.; Member Boston Chamber of Commerce; Director
    Commercial National Bank.

  =Reddy, Hon. W. F.=, 23 Schafer Building, Richmond, Va.; member of the
    State Legislature.

  =Redican, Rev. J. F.=, Leicester, Mass.

  =Reed, Henry E.=, Portland, Ore.; care of _The Oregonian_.

  =Regan, W. P.=, architect, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Reilly, James C.=, Clement Building, Rutland, Vt.

  =Reilly, John M.=, Box 122, Columbus, Ind.

  =Reilly, Robert J.=, Cedar Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Reynolds, James F.=, 12 Belmont Place, Somerville, Mass.

  =Rice, James D.=, 39 Hammond Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Rice, John H.=, Eastern Trust and Banking Co., Bangor, Me.

  =Richardson, Stephen J.=, 1785 Madison Avenue, New York City.

  =Riddle, Patrick E.=, East Cottage Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.

  =Riley, James Whitcomb=, Indianapolis, Ind.

  =Riordan, John H.=, 136 Fort Hill Avenue, Lowell, Mass.

  =Robinson, Thomas W.=, Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Roche, James Jeffrey=, (LL. D.), editor of _The Pilot_, 630
    Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Roche, Martin J.=, 23 City Square, Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Rock, Thomas H.=, Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Roe, James V.=, Harbor View, East Boston, Mass.

  =Rodwaye, Alfred J.=, 44 Kingston Street, Boston, Mass.; a member of
    the Jacobite Order of the White Rose; Fellow of the Royal Historical
    Society, England; Fellow of the Royal Society of Northern
    Antiquarians, Denmark; member of the Royal Italian Heraldic Academy.

  =Ronayne, Thomas H.=, 5 Beekman Street, New York City.

  =Rooney, John J.=, of Rooney & Spence, customs brokers, 66, 68, and 70
    Beaver Street, New York City.

  =Rorke, James=, 40 Barclay Street, New York City.

  =Rossa, Jeremiah O’Donovan=, New York City.

  =Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore=, Governor of New York, Albany, N. Y.

  =Ruggles, Henry Stoddard= (ninth American generation), Wakefield,
    Mass.; a member of the Sons of the Revolution and of the Sons of the
    American Revolution.

  =Rush, John=, 16th and Farnham Streets, Omaha, Neb.

  =Ryan, Charles V.=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Ryan, Felix L.=, 47 Main Street, Bangor, Me.

  =Ryan, John=, 789 Westfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 204 Merrimack Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 59 South Broadway, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Ryan, John J.=, 158 East 95th Street, New York City.

  =Ryan, Patrick H.=, 789 Westfield Street, Lowell, Mass.

  =Ryan, Philip=, 79 Portland Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Ryan, Richard=, Rutland, Vt.

  =Ryan, Sylvester A.=, 565 Chestnut Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Sanders, Col. C. C.=, Gainesville, Ga.; President of the State
    Banking Co.; commanded the 24th Georgia Regiment in the Civil War.

  =Scanlan, John F.=, 4333 Indiana Avenue, Chicago, Ill.

  =Scanlan, Rev. M. A.=, 1276 Woodland Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.

  =Scully, Martin=, _Daily Democrat_, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Scully, Rev. Thomas=, Cambridgeport, Mass.

  =Sexton, Sergt. Patrick G.=, Augusta, Me.

  =Shahan, Rev. Thomas H.=, Malden, Mass.

  =Shahan, Rev. Thomas J.= (D. D.), Catholic University, Washington, D.
    C.

  =Shanahan, Rev. Edmund T.= (Ph. D., D. D.), Catholic University,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Shea, C. J.=, of Shea & Donnelly, Lynn, Mass.

  =Shea, John=, 99 Georgia Street, Dorchester (Boston), Mass.

  =Shea, John T.=, 119 3d Street, East Cambridge, Mass.; member of the
    Board of Aldermen.

  =Shea, M. J.=, Piedmont Street, Canton, Ohio.

  =Shea, Richard J.=, City Hall, Lawrence, Mass.; clerk of the Council;
    City Auditor.

  =Sheahan, Dennis H.=, Providence, R. I.; ex-clerk of the Rhode Island
    House of Representatives.

  =Sheahan, Dr. Joseph M.=, 6 School Street, Quincy, Mass.

  =Sheehan, John A.=, Pickering Building, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sheehan, Joseph=, southwest corner 6th and Market Streets,
    Philadelphia, Pa.

  =Sheran, Hugh F.=, 46 Woodbine Street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass.

  =Sheridan, Bernard H.=, principal of the Oliver School, Lawrence,
    Mass.

  =Shortell, Joseph P.=, 28 Cabot Street, Salem, Mass.

  =Shuman, A.=, 440 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Slattery, James A.=, Boston, Mass.

  =Sloane, Prof. William M.=, Columbia College, New York City; author of
    a “Life of Napoleon.”

  =Slocum, Rev. Wm. J.=, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Smith, Rev. James J.=, 88 Central Street, Norwich, Conn.

  =Smith, Joseph=, Secretary of the Police Commission, Lowell, Mass.; a
    clear, vigorous writer, and author of many articles of an
    ethnological and historical nature.

  =Smith, Dr. Thomas B.=, Wyman’s Exchange, Lowell, Mass.

  =Smith, Rev. Thomas M.=, East Liverpool, Ohio.

  =Smyth, Eneas=, Brookline, Mass.

  =Smyth, Philip A.=, 11 Pine Street, New York City.

  =Smyth, Rev. Hugh J.=, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Hugh P.=, Rector St. Joseph’s Church, Roxbury (Boston),
    Mass.

  =Smyth, Rev. Thomas=, Springfield, Mass.

  =Somers, James F.=, 83 West 132d Street, New York City.

  =Somers, P. E.=, 17 Hermon Street, Worcester, Mass.

  =Somers, Thomas F.=, 349 Broadway, New York City.

  =St. Gaudens, Augustus=, sculptor, New York City.

  =Steele, N. C.= (M. D.), Chattanooga, Tenn.; four generations removed
    from Ireland.

  =Stevens, Walter F.=, 176 Winter Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Eugene M.=, Chicopee, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Dr. James E.=, 254 Wayland Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Sullivan, James J.=, 18 Margaret Street, Springfield, Mass.

  =Sullivan, James O.=, 245 Main Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Sullivan, Jeremiah D.=, 431 Purchase Street, New Bedford, Mass.

  =Sullivan, John D.=, 113 Palm Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, 140 Chestnut Street, Nashua, N. H.

  =Sullivan, John J.=, 61–63 Faneuil Hall Market, Boston, Mass.; of Doe,
    Sullivan & Co.

  =Sullivan, Hon. M. B.=, Dover, N. H., ex-State Senator.

  =Sullivan, M. F.= (M. D.), Oak Street, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Sullivan, M. J.=, of Buckley, McCormack & Sullivan, Lawrence, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Patrick F.=, of Sullivan Bros., 9 School Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Sullivan, Patrick H.=, Opera Block, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sullivan, Hon. Richard=, Hemingway Building, Boston, Mass.

  =Sullivan, Roger G.=, 803 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Sullivan, Timothy P.=, Concord, N. H.; furnished granite from his New
    Hampshire quarries for the new National Library building,
    Washington, D. C.

  =Sullivan, William J.= (M. D.), Lawrence, Mass.

  =Supple, Rev. James N.=, Rector St. Francis de Sales Church,
    Charlestown (Boston), Mass.

  =Sweeny, William Montgomery=, 120 Franklin Street, Astoria, L. I., N.
    Y.

  =Swords, Col. Henry Leonard=, The Florence, 4th Avenue and 18th
    Street, New York City.

  =Swords, Joseph Forsyth=, Room 500, Bank of Commerce Building, Nassau
    and Cedar Streets, New York City.

  =Tally, Philip=, 353 Westminster Street, Providence, R. I.

  =Teeling, Rev. Arthur J.=, Rector St. Mary’s Roman Catholic Church,
    Lynn, Mass.

  =Tennian, Rev. John C.=, Rector Church of the Assumption, Potter’s
    Avenue, Providence, R. I.

  =Thomas, Robert J.=, Water Department, Lowell, Mass.

  =Thompson, Robert Ellis= (Ph. D., S. T. D.), President Central High
    School, Philadelphia, Pa.; recently a professor in the University of
    Pennsylvania.

  =Tierney, Dennis H.=, 167 Bank Street, Waterbury, Conn.

  =Tierney, Rev. John D.=, Salem, Mass.

  =Tierney, Myles=, 317 Riverside Drive, New York City.

  =Tigh, Frederick= (M. D.), 132 High Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Timmins, Patrick J.= (M. D.), 487 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

  =Toland, M. A.=, _The Pilot Office_, 630 Washington Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Toomey, Daniel J.=, manager _Donahoe’s Magazine_, Washington Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Toomey, R. A.=, with Forbes & Wallace, Springfield, Mass.

  =Tracy, James J.=, Archives Division, State Capitol, Boston, Mass.

  =Travers, Ambrose F.=, 107 Duane Street, New York City.

  =Travers, F. C.=, President of Travers Brothers Co., 107 Duane Street,
    New York City, cordage manufacturers.

  =Travers, Vincent P.=, 107 Duane Street, New York City.

  =Treanor, J. O.=, 211 Union Street, Nashville, Tenn.

  =Tuckey, James F.=, 26 Grove Street, New Haven, Conn.

  =Vail, Roger=, associate editor _The Irish Standard_, Minneapolis,
    Minn.

  =Vance, Thomas F.=, Main Street, Pawtucket, R. I.

  =Waldron, Thomas F.=, 74 Washington Street, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Wallace, Rev. T. H.=, Lewiston, Me.

  =Wallace, Rev. Thomas W.=, 437 West 51st Street, New York City.

  =Waller, Hon. Thomas M.=, ex-Governor of Connecticut, 15 Wall Street,
    New York City.

  =Walsh, Henry Collins=, care of the _New York Herald_, New York City;
    a descendant of Gen. Stephen Moylan of the American Revolution.

  =Walsh, James A.=, Lewiston, Me.; agent Lewiston Bleachery.

  =Walsh, Michael= (LL. D., Ph. D.), editor of the _Sunday Democrat_, 32
    Park Row, New York City.

  =Walsh, William P.=, 247 Water Street, Augusta, Me.

  =Ward, Edward=, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, John T.=, Kennebunk, Me.

  =Ward, Michael J.=, Hotel Ilkley, Huntington Avenue, Boston, Mass.

  =Ward, Patrick=, 13 Casco Street, Portland, Me.

  =Ware, Alfred=, Lowell, Mass.

  =Weadock, Hon. Thomas A. E.=, Detroit, Mich.; member of the 52d and of
    the 53d Congresses.

  =Welsh, John P.=, Portland, Me.

  =Whalen, Maurice H.=, 8 Vetromile Street, Biddeford, Me.

  =Whalen, Nicholas J.=, 97 Merrimack Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Whall, William B. F.=, 57 Monmouth Street, East Boston, Mass.

  =White, Hon. Andrew J.=, 6 Mount Morris West, New York City.

  =Williams, Hon. George Fred=, 209 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

  =Willis, John R.=, 1164 Elm Street, Manchester, N. H.

  =Wilson, Hon. Thomas=, St. Paul, Minn.; care of Chicago, St. Paul,
    Minneapolis & Omaha R. R.

  =Wilson, William Power=, Exchange Building, 53 State Street, Boston,
    Mass.

  =Winters, Lawrence=, 350 West 120th Street, New York City.

  =Woods, John J.=, 54 Federal Street, Newburyport, Mass.

  =Woods, Robert J.=, treasurer University Settlement, 6 Rollins Street,
    Boston, Mass.

  =Woods, William S.=, City Solicitor, Taunton, Mass.

  =Wright, John B.=, editor of _The Gazette_, Haverhill, Mass.

  =Wynne, Peter=, 301 East 105th Street, New York City.




                        THE DEAD OF THE SOCIETY.

    “Memory, gray old warder, throw open thy portals in welcome
    Wide to the dead—our dead”—they loved us well in their lifetime.


                       Col. Jeremiah W. Coveney.

Born in Cambridge, Mass., 1840; during the Civil War enlisted in 28th
Massachusetts Regiment; was successively commissioned Lieutenant,
Captain, Major, and Lieutenant-Colonel; seriously wounded in 1864, while
Brigade Inspector of the Second Brigade, First Division, Second Corps;
member of the Massachusetts Legislature; surveyor of the port of Boston;
private secretary to Governor Russell; postmaster of Boston; admitted to
the Society March 29, 1897; died in Cambridge, Mass., April 29, 1897.


              Rear-Admiral Richard Worsam Meade, U. S. N.

Born in New York City, 1837; appointed Midshipman Oct. 2, 1850; first
sea service in sloop-of-war _Preble_, 1851; warrant as Master and
commission as Lieutenant, 1858; Lieutenant-Commander, 1862; was a
Commander in 1870; commissioned Captain in 1880; became a Commodore in
1892, and Rear-Admiral in 1894; admitted to the Society at its
organization, Jan. 20, 1897, and chosen President-General of the same,
being the first to hold the office; died in Washington, D. C., May 4,
1897.


                        Henry V. Donovan, M. D.

Born in Lawrence, Mass., 1868; graduated from Harvard University; was
elected to the school board of Lawrence, and rendered excellent service;
admitted to the Society May 25, 1897; died in Lawrence, Mass., Aug. 4,
1897.


                          Gen. John Cochrane.

Descendant of an officer who served under Washington; President of the
N. Y. Society of the Cincinnati; from 1857 to 1861 was a Congressman
from New York City; was commissioned Colonel of the First U. S.
Chasseurs, June 11, 1861; Brigadier-General of Volunteers, July 17,
1862; in 1864 was nominated at Cleveland, O., for Vice-President of the
United States; had previously been Attorney-General of New York state;
admitted to the Society on its organization, Jan. 20, 1897; died in New
York City, Oct. 7, 1897.


                         Mr. Laurence J. Smith.

Born in County Meath, Ireland, 1850; member of City Council, Lowell,
Mass., 1881–’86; member Lowell Public Library Board; was made a License
Commissioner of Lowell, 1894; Police Commissioner, 1895; attained the
highest rank in the Foresters of America, having been Supreme Chief
Ranger of the United States; admitted to the Society Feb. 27, 1897; died
in Lowell, Mass., Oct. 23, 1897.


                          Hon. Owen A. Galvin.

Born in Boston, Mass., 1852; admitted to the bar, 1876; elected to the
Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1881; a State Senator from
Boston during 1882, 1883, and 1884; candidate for President of the
Senate, 1884; candidate for Mayor of Boston, 1889; was U. S. District
Attorney, 1887–’89; admitted to the Society July 15, 1897; died in
Boston, Mass., Dec. 18, 1897.


                        Hon. Charles B. Gafney.

Born in Ossipee, N. H., 1843; enlisted Sept. 27, 1862, as Second
Lieutenant of Co. B, 13th New Hampshire Volunteers; promoted to First
Lieutenant, June 1, 1863, and to Captain, May 30, 1865; severely wounded
in the thigh at Petersburg, June 15, 1864; was Clerk to the National
Senate Committee on Naval Affairs for eight years; went to Rochester, N.
H., in 1871, and formed a law partnership with Joseph H. Worcester,
which firm became Worcester, Gafney & Snow; was appointed Judge of
Probate for Strafford county; admitted to the Society Feb. 9, 1897; died
in Rochester, N. H., Jan. 25, 1898.


                            Mr. Andrew Athy.

Born in County Galway, Ireland, 1832; filled public offices of trust and
responsibility in Worcester, Mass., almost continuously during more than
thirty years; was first elected to the Common Council in 1865, and
served thirteen years; represented the city in the Legislature of 1874
and 1875; was a member of the Board of Aldermen from 1881 to 1886, and a
member of the commission to build the new City Hall; candidate for mayor
in 1886. He was a member of the old Jackson Guards at the time of
disbandment, during the Know-Nothing administration of Governor Gardner;
admitted to the Society as a life member March 5, 1898; died in
Worcester, Mass., May 15, 1898.


                           Mr. John R. Alley.

Born in Dublin, Ireland, 1822; a prominent Boston brewer; life member of
the Society. His grandfather, John Alley, was at one time lord mayor of
Dublin, and his father was a graduate of Cambridge University, England.
Mr. Alley, our deceased associate, had warm Irish sympathies, and it has
been truly said of him that few men in Boston or New England did more
for the Irish cause than he. His purse and voice were always at the
disposal of his fellow-countrymen in the various phases of Irish
movements in this country for the past thirty years. He was an ardent
lover of Ireland, and took a lively interest in her history and
literature. Admitted to the Society June 24, 1897; died in Boston,
Mass., June 21, 1898.


                          Joseph H. Fay, M. D.

A graduate of the University of Vermont; admitted to the Society March
3, 1898; died in Fall River, Mass., June 25, 1898.


                            Capt. John Drum.

Born in Ireland, 1840; a veteran of the Civil War; later, commissioned
Lieutenant in the regular army; saw much service in campaigns against
the Indians; military instructor at St. Francis Xavier’s College, New
York City; on the outbreak of hostilities with Spain he was a captain in
the Tenth U. S. Infantry; went with his regiment to Cuba, where he met a
soldier’s death; admitted to the Society July 20, 1897; killed in action
before Santiago de Cuba, July 1, 1898. (The date of his death is given
on page 29 of this volume as July 2.|It should read July 1, as here
stated.)

Mr. John E. Conner.

Born in Bradford, Vt., 1852; chief of police of Chicopee, Mass., 1885 to
1894 and in 1896 and 1897; city marshal of Chicopee at the time of his
death; admitted to the Society June 22, 1898; died in Chicopee, Mass.,
Aug. 25, 1898.


                        Rev. Philip Grace, D. D.

Born in County Kilkenny, Ireland, 1838; ordained to the Roman Catholic
priesthood at Hartford, Conn., 1862; was attached to various churches in
the diocese of Providence, R. I.; was made a doctor of divinity by Pope
Leo XIII; became rector of St. Mary’s church, Newport, R. I., and passed
away while occupying that position; admitted to the Society March 14,
1898; died in Newport, R. I., Sept. 23, 1898.


                          Capt. John M. Tobin.

Born in Waterford, Ireland, 1836; was commissioned First Lieutenant in
the Ninth Massachusetts at outbreak of the Civil War; became Adjutant of
the regiment; participated in the battles of Yorktown, Hanover Court
House, Gaines’ Mill, Malvern Hill, and many other engagements; was
wounded at the Battle of the Wilderness; at Malvern Hill he voluntarily
took command of the regiment while Adjutant, and bravely fought it from
3 P. M. until dusk, rallying and reforming the regiment under fire, and
twice picking up the regimental flag—the color-bearers having been shot
down—and placing it in safe hands. In 1863–’64 he was Inspector-General
of a brigade in the First Division of the Fifth Corps, at Bealton, Va.
He was severely wounded at the Battle of Laurel Hill, Va. For
twenty-five years he was engaged as editor and publisher of weekly
papers, and also did much work upon the Boston dailies. In the recent
war with Spain, Captain Tobin was Quartermaster in the First Brigade,
Second Division, First Army Corps; admitted to the Society Jan. 20,
1897; died in Knoxville, Tenn., December, 1898.


                          Hon. Patrick Walsh.

Born in Ireland, 1840; became editor and proprietor of _The Chronicle_,
Augusta, Ga.; was also manager of the Southern Associated Press; in 1894
he became United States senator from Georgia; was elected mayor of
Augusta, and held the office at the time of his death; admitted to the
Society January 20, 1897; died in Augusta, Ga., March 19, 1899.


                        Col. Patrick T. Hanley.

Born in Roscommon, Ireland, 1831; was an officer in the Ninth
Massachusetts regiment during the Civil War, being successively
commissioned Lieutenant, Captain, Major, and Lieutenant-Colonel; took
command of the regiment at the Wilderness on the fall of Colonel Guiney;
prominent in Boston business circles; admitted to the Society, November
29, 1898; died in Boston, Mass., March 31, 1899.


                         Hon. John H. Sullivan.

Born in County Cork, Ireland, 1848; a prominent citizen of Boston,
Mass.; state senator of Massachusetts; member of the Governor’s Council;
sinking fund commissioner of Boston; president of the Columbia Trust and
Safety Deposit Company; died in East Boston, Mass., April 9, 1899.


                            Hon. Eli Thayer.

Born in Mendon, Mass., 1819; descended from John Alden of Mayflower
fame; elected to congress from the Worcester, Mass., district in 1856;
author of “A History of the Kansas Crusade;” admitted to the Society,
1898; died in Worcester, Mass., April 15, 1899.


                       William F. Cummings, M. D.

Born in Rutland, Vt., 1870; graduated in medicine at the University of
Vermont, 1893; treasurer of the Rutland County Medical and Surgical
society; admitted to the Society, August 3, 1898; died in Rutland, Vt.,
April 16, 1899.


                         Mr. Joseph J. Kelley.

Born in Ireland, 1844; served as a member of the school board of
Cambridge, Mass., and in various other positions of honor in that city;
member of the Massachusetts legislature; admitted to the Society, March
29, 1898; died in East Cambridge, Mass., April 29, 1899.


                         Mr. William Slattery.

Born in Ireland, 1849; graduated from the law school of Harvard
University; became a prominent lawyer of Holyoke, Mass.; associate
justice of the city court; admitted to the Society, June 23, 1898; died
in Holyoke, Mass., July 22, 1899.


                         Rev. George W. Pepper.

Born in County Down, Ireland, 1833; was ordained to the Methodist
Episcopal ministry in this country; a member of the North Ohio
conference for a period of forty years; commanded a company in the
Eightieth Ohio regiment during the Civil War and later served as a
chaplain; in 1890 was appointed U. S. consul to Milan, Italy, by
President Harrison; admitted to the Society on its organization, January
20, 1897; died in Cleveland, O., August 6, 1899.


                          Rev. Denis Scannell.

Born in County Kerry, Ireland, 1846; was ordained to the Roman Catholic
priesthood at Alleghany, N. Y., 1870; appointed rector of St. Anne’s
church, Worcester, Mass., 1872, having previously had charge of the
parish in Blackstone, Mass.; served two terms of three years each on the
school board of Worcester; admitted to the Society, November 3, 1898;
died in Worcester, Mass., August 20, 1899.


                           Mr. Edmund Phelan.

Born in Ireland 31 years ago; at the time of his death he was president
of Newspaper Mailers’ Union, No. 1, Boston, Mass. He was known
throughout the state as a temperance worker in Catholic circles, and
also took much interest in the work of our Historical Society. He died
at his home, 32 Adams street, Roxbury (Boston), Mass., November 29,
1899.




                             GENERAL INDEX.


 Addresses and Papers at the Annual Meeting of the Society, 53.

 Annual Banquet of the organization, 46.

 Annual Business Proceedings, 41.

 Annual Report of the Secretary-General, 42.

 Annual Report of the Treasurer-General, 45.


 Chronological Record of the Society, 12.


 Hon. John D. Crimmins’s Reception to the Society, 52.

 Hon. Theodore Roosevelt’s Reception, 51.


 List of Gentlemen who have spoken before the Society, or at meetings
    under its auspices, 203.

 List of Papers read, or contributed for publication, since the Society
    was organized, 202.

 Letter from the Retiring President-General, 53.


 Meeting at Newport, R. I., 114.

 Meeting at Providence, R. I., 104.

 Membership Roll, 206.


 Necrology of the Society, 235.


 Officers of the Society for 1899, 9, 10, 11.


 Papers contributed during the year for publication, 120.

 President-General Gargan’s Address, 93.

 Prospectus of the Society, 5.


 Reception and Banquet at Boston Mass., 117.




                           ANALYTICAL INDEX.


 Abraham Lincoln, 98.

 A Chronological Record of the Society, 12.

 Adams, John, testimony relative to Gen. John Sullivan, 77.

 Addresses and Papers at the Annual Meeting of the Society, 53.

 A Founder of Lowell, Mass., 167.

 African Origin, Americans of, 56.

 Alabama, Hon. Emmet O’Neal of, 14.

 Alabama, Pickett’s History of, 137.

 Alabama, The Confederate Ship, 82, 83.

 Alamo, Siege of the, 131.

 Alarm, The Lexington, 107.

 Alden, John, of Mayflower fame, 238.

 Alexander II, of Russia, 99.

 Alexander, Sarah, of Newry, Ireland, 188.

 Alley, John R., of Boston, Mass., 27, 236.

 All Hallows College, 220.

 Alien and Sedition Laws, 142.

 Alliance with the Hurons, 71.

 Altoona, Pa., Conference of Loyal Governors at, 98.

 America, Irish Immigration to, 62.

 “America Was Lost by Irish Emigrants,” 67.

 American Antiquarian Society, 14.

 American Army before Boston, 68.

 American Authors’ Society, 104.

 American Continental Army, 82.

 American Colonies, 44, 60, 61, 71, 74, 77.

 American Colonies, Irish Schoolmaster in, 44.

 American Colonies, Irish Settlers in, 60, 61.

 American History, The Irish Element in, 93.

 American History Is Falsified, Some Ways in Which, 25.

 American Independence, 97, 108.

 American Independence, League of, 97.

 American Journalists of Irish Blood, 38, 203.

 American Oriental Society, 43, 220.

 American Prisoners of War in Ireland, 188.

 American Revolution, The, 10, 16, 18, 20, 24, 30, 40, 43, 94, 107, 111,
    154, 155, 176, 177, 180, 182, 188.

 American Revolution, Daughters of the, 40.

 American Revolution, Sons of the, 16, 230.

 Americans of Irish Blood, Energy of, 101, 111.

 Americans who are of African Origin, 56.

 Anahuac, Fight with Indians at, 127.

 Ancestors of Gen. John Sullivan, 27, 202.

 Anderson, Col. William P., 162.

 Andrew Jackson, 90.

 Andrew, Governor, 98.

 Andrews, E. Benjamin, 23, 26, 33, 44, 51, 111, 112, 204.

 An Early Irish Settler of Waterbury, Conn., 153, 203.

 “Anglo Saxon” Fetich, The, 30, 53, 54, 55, 89, 90, 94, 100, 102, 103,
    203.

 Anne (Fitzsimmons) Warren of Westmeath, 73, 74.

 Annual Banquet of the Society, 46.

 Annual Business Meeting, 41.

 Antrim, Ireland, 138, 147, 184.

 Aquidneck Hotel, Newport, R. I., 36.

 Archbishop Ryan of Philadelphia, 201.

 Archæological Institute of America, 43, 220.

 Armstrong, Col. James, 38.

 Armorial Bearings, Irish, 212.

 _Army and Navy Journal_, 201.

 Army of the Potomac, 7.

 Army of the Tennessee, 197, 198, 199, 210.

 Arransas Bay, Irish Settlers on, 124.

 Arsenal at St. Louis, The U. S., 196, 197.

 Assessment on David O’Killia to Help Defray the Expenses of King
    Philip’s War, 13.

 Atkinson, Theodore, Provincial Secretary of New Hampshire, 75.

 Atlanta, Battle Before, 199.

 Atlanta, Campaign, The, 198, 199.

 A Travesty on Justice, 59.

 Atrocities by Indians, Tories, British Regulars, and Refugees, 78.

 Augusta (Ga.) _Chronicle_, 238.

 Austin, Moses (of Missouri and Texas), 122.

 Austin, Stephen F., 129, 132.


 Bacon, John, Killed at the Battle of Lexington, Concord and Cambridge
    (April 19, 1775), 18, 202.

 Bacons, The Irish, Who Settled at Dedham, Mass., in 1640, 18, 202.

 Baird, Henry Carey, 17.

 Ball Family, The, 69.

 Ballymoney (Ireland), 146, 183.

 Ballyshannon (Ireland), 107.

 Baltimore, Lord, 63, 70.

 Barbadoes, Emigration to, 61.

 Barbarous Policy of Cromwell in Ireland, 60.

 Barber’s Height, R. I., 183.

 Barnabas Palmer of Rochester, N. H. 15.

 Baron Carondelet, 121.

 Barr, William, “An Irishman,” 120.

 Barrett, Col. James, 107.

 Barrington (R. I.), Bicknell’s Sketches of, 189.

 Barrington (R. I.), Town of, 26, 189, 202.

 Barry, Commodore, 206.

 Barry, U. S. Torpedo-boat Destroyer, 37.

 Battle before Atlanta, 199.

 Battle of Bunker Hill, 18, 20, 36, 43, 68, 77, 82, 112, 115.

 Battle of Cerro Gordo, 195.

 Battle of Churubusco, 195.

 Battle of Contreras, 195.

 Battle of Corinth, 198.

 Battle of Dallas, 199.

 Battle at El Caney, 85, 88.

 Battle at Fredericksburg, 103.

 Battle of Gaines’ Mills, 237.

 Battle of Hanover Court House, 237.

 Battle of Iuka, 108.

 Battle of Keneshaw Mountain, 199.

 Battle of Lake Champlain, 178.

 Battle of Lake Erie, 28, 188.

 Battle of Laurel Hill, 238.

 Battle of Lexington, 18, 19, 34, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 112, 113,
    202.

 Battle of Malvern Hill, 237.

 Battle of Resaca, 199.

 Battle of San Jacinto, 129, 130, 131.

 Battle of San Juan, 85, 88, 102, 103.

 Battle of Santiago de Cuba, 43, 44, 85, 88, 103, 237.

 Battle of Saratoga, 112.

 Battle of Sharpsburg, 178.

 Battle of Shiloh, 197, 198.

 Battle of the Wilderness, 237.

 Battle of Wilson’s Creek, 197.

 Battle of Yorktown, 237.

 Battleship Maine, Loss of the, 25.

 Battleship Texas, 16, 219, 223.

 Belfast (Ireland), 109, 183, 184.

 Belknap, Rear Admiral (U. S. N.), 21, 204.

 Berkeley, Dean, 115, 182, 183.

 Ben. Logan of Kentucky (1775), 143.

 Ben: Perley Poore’s Life of Gen. Burnside, 187.

 Benjamin Franklin, 200.

 Bermuda, Emigration to, 61.

 Bermuda, Dr. T. A. Emmet’s Visit to, 70.

 Betsey Burnside of Lincoln, R. I., 187.

 Bicknell’s Sketches of Barrington, R. I., 189.

 Bigger, John Bell, of Virginia, 164.

 Bishop Brennan of Dallas, 136.

 Bishop Gallagher of Galveston, 136.

 Bishop Moylan of Cork, 68.

 Bishop Nerez of San Antonio, 136.

 “Black Famine,” The, 164.

 Blakely, U. S. Torpedo boat, 37.

 Blair, Gen. Frank P., 199.

 Blue Grass Region, 143.

 Blue Jacket, The Indian, 170.

 Bodfish, Rev. Joshua P., 46, 206.

 Bombardment of Vera Cruz, 195.

 Bonus on Irish Estates Confiscated to the Crown, 58.

 Boone, Daniel, 139, 140, 143.

 Boscawen, Admiral, 74.

 Boston, American Army before, 68.

 Boston Chamber of Commerce, 229.

 Boston, Entrenchments Around, 80.

 Boston _Globe_, The, 13, 26, 118, 218.

 Boston _Herald_, The, 13.

 Boston Public Schools, 224.

 Boston School Board, 209.

 Bowen, Dr. Pardon, 154.

 Bowen’s Hill (R. I.), 182.

 Boyle of Newport, R. I., Mayor, 25, 38, 40, 116, 205, 207.

 Bradford of Maryland. Gov., 98.

 Brady, Rev. Cyrus Townsend, 13, 35, 42, 207.

 Branch of the MacSweenys Settles in Cork at Close of Thirteenth
    Century, 194.

 Brandon, Edward, City Clerk of Cambridge, Mass., 19, 202, 207.

 Brandywine, The U. S. S., 196.

 Brazoria, 130.

 Breckinridge, Gen. John C., 163.

 Brendan, St., Reputed Discoverer of America, 90.

 Brennan of Dallas, Bishop, 136.

 Brennan, Hon. James F., of Peterborough, N. H., 145, 203, 204, 207.

 British Government, Overt Acts Against, 71

 British House of Commons Reports, 95.

 British Occupation of Philadelphia, 69.

 British Soldiery, Ravages of, 107.

 Brown, Arthur, Member of the Irish Parliament, 181.

 Brown, Rev. Arthur, 181.

 Brown, Rev. Marmaduke, 181, 185.

 Brown University, 23, 26, 43, 44, 111, 153, 180, 181, 182, 183, 186,
    187, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192.

 Bunker Hill, 18, 20, 36, 43, 68, 77, 82, 112, 115, 202.

 Burgoyne, Gen., Surrender of, 28, 169.

 Burk, Hon. John Daly of Virginia, 162.

 Burk’s History of Virginia, 162.

 Burnside, Betsey, 187.

 Burnside, Gen. Ambrose E., 187, 188.

 Burnsides, The Irish, 187.

 Butler, Col. William, of the Revolution, 82.

 Butler, Deacon John, First Child of Irish Parents Born in Woburn,
    Mass., 19.

 Butler, Gen. M. C., of South Carolina, 10, 44, 207.

 Butler, James, The Planter of Lancaster, Mass., 19.

 Butler, Simon, of Kentucky, 139.


 Calhoun’s Ferry, Engagement at, 199.

 Calhoun, Hon. John C., 40.

 Calhoun Monument at Charleston, S. C., 40.

 California, James Connolly of Coronado, 11, 209.

 California, Military Gov. Riley of, 196.

 Cameron, Hon. Simon, 195, 196.

 Campaign (1855–’56), Against the Sioux, 196.

 Campbell, Col. John, 140.

 Canada, Fenian Invasion of, 200.

 Cape Breton, 15, 74.

 “Capt. John McHenry, an Irishman,” 122.

 Capt. Vernon (1653), 64, 65.

 Capture of Fort Donelson, 197.

 Capture of Louisburg, 43, 74.

 Cargill, Hugh, 107.

 Carondelet, Baron, 121.

 Carrickfergus (Ireland), Emigrant Party Sails from, in 1636, for the
    Merrimac in New England, 64.

 Carroll, Hon. Hugh J. (Pawtucket, R. I.), 12, 22, 203, 208.

 Carroll, Thomas (Peabody, Mass.), 21, 40, 208.

 Carroll’s Brigade, 122.

 Carte, Writings of, quoted, 59.

 Carter, U. S. Senator (Montana), 37, 208.

 Cassin, Commodore John, 176, 178.

 Castle of Cloghda (Ireland), 193, 194.

 Castle Garden, 195.

 Castle at Rathmullen, 193.

 Catholic Club of New York, 229.

 Catholic Irish in Ireland Subjected to Unspeakable Brutality, 59.

 Catholic Irish Troops from Maryland at the Siege of Boston, 68.

 Catholic Nobility and Gentry Persecuted in Ireland, 59.

 Catholics, Penal Laws in Ireland Against, 109.

 Catholic University in Ireland, Proposed, 110.

 Catholic University of America, 9, 14, 21, 32, 209, 214, 215, 218, 231.

 Cavan, (Ireland), 187.

 Celt, The Irish, 103.

 Celtic Medical Society of New York, 239.

 Celtic Race, The, 98.

 Celtic Type, Men of the Received, 54.

 Centenary of the Death of Washington, 118.

 Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa., 9, 232.

 Central New York, Indians of, 63.

 Cerro Gordo, Battle of, 195.

 Cervera, Admiral, 102.

 Charitable Irish Society of Boston (founded 1737), 39, 43, 115, 189,
    215.

 Charleston (S. C.), _News and Courier_, 38, 39.

 Chase, Librarian Arthur H., of New Hampshire, 17.

 Chasseurs, First U. S., 235.

 Cherry Valley, Barbarities at, 78.

 Chevalier de Chastellux, 115.

 _Chicago Eagle_, The, 212.

 Chicago, Ill., Letter from E. Benj. Andrews, Sup’t of Public Schools,
    112.

 Christopher R. Perry, 188.

 _Chronicle, The Augusta_ (Ga.), 238.

 Churubusco, Battle of, 195.

 Clarendon, Writings of, quoted, 59.

 Clark, Eleanor Swan, 200.

 Clark, Gen. George Rogers, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143.

 Clark, Mrs. Amy, 153.

 Champlain, 71.

 Champlain, Battle of Lake, 178.

 Charles the First’s Inhuman Treatment of the Irish People, 57, 58.

 Clark, Rev. Edward A., 136.

 Clark, Rev. James F., 27.

 Clark, The Lost State of, 25.

 Clary, Charles II. (Hallowell, Me.), 28, 204.

 Clary, John (Newcastle, N. H.), 28.

 Cincinnati, Society of the, 14, 43, 235.

 City of Mexico, 122.

 Civil War, The, 82, 135, 176, 178, 189, 196, 199, 225, 227, 235, 237,
    238, 239.

 Cleveland, President, 100.

 Clinton, Gen James, 79, 81.

 Clontarf (Ireland), 103, 228.

 Clontarf, Irish Valor at, 103.

 Clontarf to Fontenoy, 103.

 Cochran, Capt. Howard Peyton, 162.

 Cochran, Col. James C., 162.

 Cochran, Henry King, 162.

 Cochran, John Lewis, 161.

 Cochrane, Gen. John, 14, 23, 235.

 Coercive Laws Against Ireland, 109.

 College of Charleston, 178.

 College of William and Mary, 14.

 Collins, Gov. John, of Rhode Island, 154.

 Collins, Hon. Patrick A., 39, 119, 204, 209.

 Colonial Irish, The, 40.

 Colonial Records, The, 56.

 Colonial Wars, Society of, 16, 20, 43.

 Colonies, Irish Settlers in the American, 60, 61.

 Colony of De Leon, Irish Settlers with the, 124.

 Colony, Irish with De Witt’s, 126.

 Colony of Refugio, The Irish, 124, 125, 126.

 Colony of San Patricio, 124, 125, 126.

 Commission to Revise State Constitution of Rhode Island, 216.

 Committee of Safety, 80, 81.

 Commodore Barry, 206.

 Commodore Perry, 28, 181, 188.

 Commons Reports, British, 95.

 Conaty, Rt. Rev. Thomas J. (D. D.), 14, 209.

 Concord Fight, The, 19, 106, 107, 113, 202.

 Concord, Mass., Col. James Barrett of, 107;
   Letter from Town Clerk of, 113.

 Concord (N. H.), _Monitor_, 12, 225.

 Condon, Capt. E. O’Meagher, 28, 34, 51, 111, 204, 209.

 Confederate Army, The, 131, 135, 178.

 Confederate Minute Men, 197.

 Confederate Service, The, 162, 164.

 Confederate States, The, 162.

 Confederate Veterans, Disabled, 201.

 Conference of Loyal Governors at Altoona, Pa., 98.

 Confiscation of Irish Lands, 58.

 Coleraine (Ireland), 148, 183.

 Columbia University, 14, 27.

 Congress, Irish in the Continental, 69.

 Congress, New Hampshire Provincial, 77.

 Congress, Texan, 131.

 Congress, The Continental, 69, 77, 129.

 Connaught, Irish Province of, 58, 60.

 Connecticut, Ex-Gov. Waller of, 24, 218.

 Connecticut, Legislature of, 207.

 Connecticut, Ninth Regiment of, 217.

 Connecticut Valley Historical Society, 216.

 Conner, City Marshal John E., of Chicopee, Mass., 30, 31, 237.

 Connolly, Dr. John (1773), 140.

 Connolly, James (Coronado, Cal.), 11, 209.

 Conroy, John, A Soldier of the Revolution, 81.

 Conquest of the Northwest Territory, 140.

 Constitution, The U. S., 15, 165.

 Continental Army, The, 82.

 Continental Congress, Irish in the, 69.

 Continental Europe, Thousands of Irish Emigrate to, 61.

 Contreras, Battle of, 195.

 Convention, The Mecklenburg, 129.

 Coomes, Mrs. William (Kentucky, 1775), 144.

 Corinth, Siege of, 198.

 Cork (Ireland), 15, 62, 65, 68, 176, 178, 182, 184, 193, 194, 238.

 Cornwallis, Capture of Lord, 29, 68.

 Corr, Bernard, of Boston, Mass., 27, 202, 204, 210.

 Cosmopolitan Magazine, Article in, 54.

 County of Cork, 15, 62, 65, 68, 176, 178, 182, 184, 193, 194, 238.

 County of Galway (Ireland), 236.

 County of Meath (Ireland), 73, 236.

 County of Westmeath (Ireland), 74.

 _Courier-Journal_, Louisville, Ky., 25.

 Coveney, Col. Jeremiah W., of Massachusetts, 19, 235.

 Cowell, Judge, 159.

 Cowles, Mrs. W. C., 32, 51, 52.

 Crane, John, of New York, 10, 48, 210.

 Crimmins, Hon. John D., 9, 20, 25, 31, 32, 34, 37, 42, 45, 46, 52, 101,
    105, 111, 116, 205, 210.

 Crimmins, Lieut. Martin L., 34, 210.

 Crittenden, Hon. John J., 163.

 Croghan, Col. George, 140.

 Cronstadt, Fortifications at, 174.

 Crowley, Rev. T. K., 137, 138.

 Cromwell’s Brutality in Ireland, 60, 108.

 Cromwell Overruns the South and Southwestern Portions of Ireland, 60.

 Cromwellian Soldiers, Descendants of, Become Thoroughly Irish, 67.

 Crown, Absurd Claims of the British, 58.

 Crown Point, Expedition Against, 74, 75, 82.

 Cryptogram, The Great, 17.

 Cuba, 43, 44, 85, 237.

 Cuban Evacuation Commission, 44.

 Cummings, Dr. William F., 33, 238.

 Cunningham, James, of Portland, Me., 21, 204, 210.

 Curran, William F., of Bangor, Me., 27, 211.

 Curtin, Jeremiah (the translator), 50, 211.

 Curtin, Gov. Andrew G., 97, 98, 99.

 Curtin, Roland, 98.

 Custis, Martha Dandridge, 200.


 Dandridge, Dorothea Spotswood, 200.

 Dandridge, Mary, of Virginia, 200.

 “Dark and Bloody Ground,” The, 139.

 Dartmouth College, 43.

 David Hamilton, A Soldier of the American Revolution, 177.

 David O’Killia (O’Kelly), “The Irishman,” a Settler on Cape Cod, Mass.,
    as Early as 1657, 13, 43.

 David Selleck (1653), An Agent for Seizing, and Transporting Irish Men,
    Women, and Children to New England and Other Parts, 65.

 Davies, Gen. Thomas A., 198.

 Davis, Hon. Robert T., 25.

 Dean Berkeley, 115, 182, 183.

 De Castro, Henri, 134.

 Declaration of Independence, American, 68, 70, 74, 129, 144, 159.

 Declaration of Independence, Irish Signers of the Goliad, 125, 126.

 Declaration of Independence, Irish Signers of the Texan, 125.

 Defence of the Irish Character, 186.

 Derry (Ireland), 187.

 Descendants of English Invaders in Ireland Become Irish of the Irish,
    67.

 Dillon, Capt. Moses, 137.

 Dillon, Colonel, the Count, 115.

 Dillon, Lieutenant-Colonel, 115.

 Documentary History of New York, 73.

 Donahoe, Patrick (Boston), 212.

 _Donahoe’s Magazine_, 233.

 Donegal (Ireland), 187, 193.

 Dongan, Hon. Thomas, Governor of New York, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 83,
    84.

 Doniphan, Joseph (Kentucky, 1779), 144.

 Donnelly, Hon. Ignatius, 17, 212.

 Donnelly, Susanna (1742), 162.

 Donoho, William, “One of Those Great Hearted, Sympathetic Men Who Honor
    Humanity,” 128.

 Donovan, Col. Henry F., Late Inspector-General Illinois National Guard,
    212.

 Donovan, Col. William H. of the Ninth Massachusetts Regiment, 33, 213.

 Donovan, Daniel, of Lynn, Mass., 48, 212.

 Donovan, Dr. Henry V., 21, 235.

 “Doomed Seventeen,” The, 133.

 Dorrances, The Irish, 152, 185.

 Dorrance Mills, The, 152, 157.

 Dorrance Purchase, The, 152, 153, 155, 157.

 Dougherty Family, The, 131.

 Down (Ireland), 239.

 Doyle, Hon. Thomas A., Mayor of Providence, R. I., 186.

 Doyle, Sarah E., Recipient of a Degree from Brown University, 192.

 “Dr. Allen, An Irish Surgeon,” 122.

 Dr. Thomas Welsh, 107.

 Drogheda (Ireland), 181.

 Drum, Capt. John, Killed in Battle at Santiago de Cuba, 21, 29, 30, 44,
    237.

 Dublin (Ireland), 39, 181, 183, 184, 190, 236.

 Dublin, Lord Mayor Tallon of, 39.

 DuChaillu, Paul B., 12, 204.

 Dunmanway (Ireland), 193.

 Durham, N. H., The Sullivan Monument at, 16.

 Dyer, Hon. Elisha, Governor of Rhode Island, 23, 213.


 Early Irish Settlers in Kentucky, 203.

 Early Irishman of Waterbury, Conn., An, 153, 203.

 Educational History of Rhode Island, 180.

 Edward Everett Hale’s “Man Without a Country,” 120.

 Edwards, Rev. Morgan, Collects Funds in Ireland and England for Rhode
    Island College, now Brown University, 183, 184, 185.

 Edwards, Joshua, 185.

 Egan, Maurice Francis, 9, 13, 21, 214.

 Eighth Virginia Regiment in the Revolution, 69.

 Eighteenth Ohio Regiment, 239.

 Eighteenth U. S. Infantry, 34.

 El Caney, Battle of, 85, 88.

 Emerald Isle, The, 145.

 Emmet, Dr. J. Duncan, 47, 214.

 Emmet, Robert, 10, 110, 214.

 Emmet, Thomas Addis (M. D.), 10, 13, 25, 32, 35, 42, 45, 47, 50, 56,
    114, 202, 204, 214.

 Emmet, T. A. (Jr.), 48.

 Encyclopædia Hibernica, 34, 105.

 England, Political Changes in, 61.

 England’s Policy Ruins Irish Industries, 66.

 English Falsification of Historical Events Relating to Ireland, 57.

 English Head Tax Imposed, 62.

 English, Hon. Thomas Dunn, 10, 13, 14, 25, 46, 51, 142, 143, 204, 214.

 English, Hon. William H., 140, 142.

 English Influence, Bad Effects of, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 65, 66.

 English Interests Combine to Suppress Irish Competition, 108.

 English Misrepresentation, 56.

 English Penal Laws, Enforced Irish Emigration Under, 111.

 English Port Regulations, 62.


 Fay, Dr. Joseph II., of Fall River, Mass., 27, 237.

 Fenian Army, The, 101.

 Fenian Brotherhood, The, 200.

 Fenian Congress, The, 199.

 Fenian Invasion of Canada, 200.

 Fenner, Gov. Arthur, of Rhode Island, 154.

 Fifteenth U. S. Infantry, 171.

 Fifth Army Corps (Civil War), 88, 238.

 Fifth New Hampshire Regiment, 82.

 Fifth Rhode Island (Heavy Artillery), 225.

 Fifty-second Congress, 233.

 Fifty-second Illinois Regiment, 197.

 Fifty-third Congress, 233.

 Fifty Years in Texas, Reminiscences of, 138.

 “Fighting Tom” Sweeny, 193.

 Finerty, Hon. John F., 214.

 First Army Corps (War with Spain), 238.

 First Child of Irish Parentage Born in Woburn, Mass., 19.

 First Field Day of the Society, 21, 44.

 First New Hampshire Regiment (War with Spain), 229.

 First U. S. Artillery, 201.

 First U. S. Chasseurs, 235.

 Fitzgerald, Chaplain, of the Twenty-second U. S. Infantry, 87, 88.

 Fitz James O’Brien, 190.

 Fitzpatrick, Edward, of the _Louisville_ (Ky.) _Daily Times_, 25, 27,
    139.

 Fitzsimmons, Anne, of Westmeath, Ireland, 74.

 Fitz Simons, Anne, Wedded Wade Hampton, 2d, 177.

 Fitz Simons, Christopher, of Charleston, S. C., 177.

 Flannigan, Hon. James W., Lieutenant-Governor of Texas, 135.

 Flemish Emigration to Ireland, 69.

 Floyd, Hon. John, Governor of Virginia, 162.

 Floyd, Hon. John B., Governor of Virginia, 162.

 Five Colonial Rhode Islanders, 23.

 Five Nations, The, 71.

 Fontenoy, Irish Valor at, 103.

 Fontenoy to Waterloo, 103.

 Forced Outbreak in Ireland (1641), 58.

 Foreign Wars, Military Order of, 43.

 “For the Freedom of the Seas,” 36.

 Fort Columbus, 196.

 Fort Donelson, Capture of, 197.

 Fort Hamilton, 196.

 Fort Louisburg, 15.

 Fort William Henry, 74.

 Fort William and Mary, 18, 77, 78, 202.

 Foster, William F., Tribute to Dean Berkeley’s Influence, 183.

 Fourteenth U. S. Infantry, 35.

 Fourth Massachusetts Vols., 190.

 Fourth U. S. Infantry, 171.

 France, 62, 65, 68, 77, 98, 134.

 France, American Alliance with, 68.

 France, Many Irish Emigrate to, 62.

 Franco-American Historical Society, 35.

 Francis Parkman, 72.

 Franklin, Benjamin, 200.

 Fredericksburg, Battle of, 103.

 French, The, 71, 72, 73, 74, 78, 80, 83, 86, 115.

 French and Indians, 73.

 French Power in Canada, 74.

 Friendly Sons of St. Patrick (New York), 23, 43.

 Friendly Sons of St. Patrick (Philadelphia), 22, 43.


 Gaelic Clans, The Northern, 74.

 Gaelic Tongue, The, 76.

 Gafney, Charles B., of New Hampshire, 24, 236.

 Gaines’ Mills, Battle of, 237.

 Galloway, Loyalist Joseph, on the Composition of the American “Rebel”
    Army, 68, 69, 95.

 _Galveston News_, The, 136.

 Galveston, Bishop Gallagher of, 136.

 Galvin, Hon. Owen A., of Boston, Mass., 24, 236.

 Galway (Ireland), 236.

 Gardiner, Hon. Luke, Speech on Irish Commerce, 67.

 Gargan, Thomas J., of Boston, 5, 9, 13, 20, 23, 24, 26, 30, 31, 34, 39,
    42, 50, 203, 215.

 Gates, General, of the Revolution, 79.

 _Gazette_, The _Providence_ (R. I.), 154.

 General Assembly of Rhode Island, 23, 44, 154, 209, 216.

 General Confiscation of Irish Lands, 58.

 General Court of Massachusetts Bay, 63.

 General Grant’s Army, 197.

 Gen. John Sullivan, Letter Written by, 116.

 Gen. W. T. Sherman’s Tribute to Gen. John Sullivan, 80.

 Geoghegan, Stephen J., of New York, 10, 34, 48, 106.

 George Washington, General, 68, 69, 78, 118, 200, 235.

 George Washington of Dublin, Ireland, 32.

 Georgia, Col. C. C. Sanders of, 231.

 Georgia, Hon. Patrick Walsh of, 10, 14, 33.

 Gilman, Col., 75.

 Gilmore, Col. William, of New Hampshire, 20.

 Girty, Simon, 170.

 Godfrey, Dr. James Erwin, 178.

 Godfreys of Georgia, The, 178.

 Goliad Declaration of Independence, Irish Signers, 125, 126.

 Gonzales, The People of, 129.

 Goodwin, John, of New York, 25, 48.

 Gorman, Hon. Charles E., of Providence, R. I,. 106, 116, 216.

 Gorman, William, of Philadelphia, 35.

 Governor Gardner, of Massachusetts, 236.

 Governor Wentworth of New Hampshire, Letter from Sir William Johnson
    to, 75.

 Grace, Bishop (Minnesota), 130.

 Grace, Rev. Philip, of Newport, R. I., 30, 31, 237.

 _Granite Monthly, The_, 22.

 Granite State, The, 142.

 Grattan, Henry, 90.

 Grattan’s Reform Bill, 109.

 Great Cryptogram, The 17.

 Great Treaty with the Sioux Nation, 196.

 Greenwood Cemetery, 175, 191, 201.

 Green Mountain Boys, The, 141.

 Griffin, John, of Portsmouth, N. H., 27.

 Guantanamo, U. S. Marines at, 102, 103.

 Guiney, Col., of Massachusetts, 238.


 Hale, Edward Everett, Allusion to His “Man Without a Country,” 120.

 Hale, Hon. John P., son of Mary (O’Brien) Hale, 83.

 Hall, Edward A., of Springfield, Mass., 27, 216.

 Hamilton, David, a Soldier of the Revolution, 177.

 Hamilton, Mrs. Elizabeth, wife of David, 177.

 Hamilton, Grizelle Agnes, wedded Capt. Joseph Taylor, U. S. N., 177.

 Hampton, Wade, of South Carolina, 38, 163, 177.

 Hand, Gen. Edward, of the Revolution, 68, 79, 81.

 Hanley, Col. Patrick T., of Boston, Mass., 33, 238.

 Hanover Court House, Battle of, 237.

 Hanrahan, Dr. John D, of Rutland, Vt., 10, 29, 217.

 Harrison, President, 239.

 Harney, Gen. William S., 164.

 _Harper’s Weekly_, Tribute in, to Gen. T. W. Sweeny, 201.

 Harson, M. J., of Providence, R. I., 105, 106, 191, 217.

 Hart, Dr. (Kentucky, 1775), 144.

 Harvard University, 21, 36, 43, 235, 239.

 Hawkins, Gen. John P., Tribute to Gen. T. W. Sweeny, 201.

 Hayden, Rev. Joseph (Texas), 136.

 Hayes, Dr. John F., of Waterbury, Conn., 10, 30, 217.

 Hazard, Oliver, of Rhode Island, 188.

 Henebry, Rev. Richard (Ph. D.), Professor of Keltic Languages and
    Literature, Catholic University, Washington, D. C., 32, 218.

 Hennessy, Michael F., of the _Boston Daily Globe_, 48, 106, 116, 118,
    218.

 Henry II, King, Oppression of the Irish People by, 102.

 Henry, Patrick, 164.

 Henry, William Wirt, grandson of Patrick Henry, 164.

 Henryk Sienkiewicz, 97, 211.

 _Herald, The Boston_, 13.

 _Herald, The New York_, 101, 233.

 Hero Tales of Ireland, 211.

 _Hibernia_, The ship of war, 83.

 Hibernian Society of Philadelphia, The, 17, 22.

 Hickey, James G., Boston, Mass., 27, 218.

 History of Alabama (Pickett’s), 137.

 History of the County of Cork (Smith’s), 193.

 History of Tennessee (Ramsay’s). 137.

 History of Texas (Brown’s), 121, 124, 128.

 History of Ireland, (Keating’s), 194.

 Hoar, Hon. George F., U. S. Senator, 51.

 Holland, John P., inventor of the submarine Torpedo Boat, 42, 218.

 Holmes, Col. James Gadsden, of Charleston, S. C., 40.

 Honor Roll of Massachusetts Soldiers in the Revolution, 40.

 Hooker, General, 16.

 Hopkins, Commodore Esek, 153.

 Horigan, Cornelius, Biddeford, Me., 29, 204.

 Hotchkiss, Gideon, of Connecticut, 159.

 Hotel Savoy, Members of the Society assemble at, 51.

 House of Commons, British, 69, 95.

 House of Commons, Irish, 67.

 Houston, Sam, of Texas, 128, 130, 131, 133, 134, 136.

 Howes, Osborne, (a descendant of David O’Killia, who settled on Cape
    Cod, Mass., as early as 1657), 13.

 Hoye, John A., Dover, N. H, 27, 218.

 Hurons, Alliance with the, 71.


 Illinois Hon. John F. Finerty of, 214.

 Illinois, National Guard, Col. Henry F. Donovan, recently
    Inspector-general of, 212.

 Illinois, P. T. Barry of Chicago, 10, 48, 206.

 _Illustrated American, The_, 167.

 Imperial University at Tokio, 216.

 Indiana, Gov. Morton of, 98.

 Interstate Commerce Commission, 7, 13, 225.

 Invasion of Canada, Plans for the, 200.

 Ireland, American Generals of the Revolution who were Natives of, 81.

 Ireland, British Travesty on Justice in, 59.

 Ireland, By one Transaction the British crown comes into Possession of
    over one half all the Available Land in, 60.

 Ireland, Captain Vernon Contracts with David Selleck and Mr. Leader to
    supply them with 250 Women and 300 men of the Irish Nation ... to
    Transplant them into New England, 64, 65.

 Ireland, Catholic and Protestant Heroes of, 90.

 Ireland, Catholics driven out of, by a Persecution which has never been
    Equalled, 57.

 Ireland, Charles I’s Broken Promises to, 58.

 Ireland, Christopher Johnson of County Meath, 73.

 Ireland, Confiscation of two-thirds of the Landed Property in, 60.

 Ireland’s Contribution to the Development of the American Colonies, 56.

 Ireland, Cromwell’s Barbarities in, 60, 102.

 Ireland, Descendants of Cromwellian Soldiers in, become intensely
    Irish, 67.

 Ireland, English Falsification of Historical Events Connected with, 57.

 Ireland, English Measures to Destroy Commerce of, 62.

 Ireland, Flemish Emigration to, 69.

 Ireland, Forced Emigration from, 57.

 Ireland, Governor Dongan of New York, a Native of, 72.

 Ireland, Immigrants from, among the Dutch in America, 63.

 Ireland, Instructions given to Exterminate whole Catholic Population
    of, 59.

 Ireland, In the Eighteenth Century Thousands of able-bodied male
    Catholics leave for European ports and very few ever return, 61.

 Ireland, Irish Emigrants from, set down as “English,” 63.

 Ireland, Lord Baltimore’s title derived from, 63.

 Ireland, Major Philip O’Sullivan, a defender of Limerick, 77.

 Ireland, Marmion’s work on the ports of, quoted, 67.

 Ireland, Men, Women and Children sent over to New England and elsewhere
    from, 65.

 Ireland, Natives of, Compelled to adopt English Surnames, 57, 62, 63.

 Ireland, Necessity for the Catholic Irish leaving, 61.

 Ireland, Party of intending Emigrants starts, in 1636, in ship _Eagle
    Wing_ from, 64.

 Ireland, Persecution inflicted on the Catholic Nobility and Gentry of,
    59.

 Ireland, Settlers in New Jersey from, 63.

 Ireland, South and Southwestern Portions overrun by Cromwell, 60.

 Ireland, Specie brought from, by Immigrants to the American Colonies,
    67.

 Ireland, The Catholics of, 61.

 Ireland, The Cromwellian Settlement of, 64.

 Ireland, The Moylans of, 68.

 Ireland, The ranks of the American Patriot Army in the Revolution
    contained Thousands of Natives of, 69, 95.

 Ireland, The Sick, the Young, and the old Indiscriminately turned
    adrift in, and their Houses Burned, 59.

 Ireland, The so-called “Rebellion of 1641” in, 58.

 Ireland, Three Thousand Heads of Families Imprisoned, charged with
    Treason, and their Property Seized, 59.

 Ireland, The Warrens of, 74.

 Ireland, William of Orange’s Destruction of Industries in, 65.

 Ireland, William Penn spends part of his life in, 63.

 Irish Among the Early American Colonists, 94.

 Irish Among the New York Dutch, 63.

 Irish Armorial Bearings, 212.

 Irish at Bunker Hill, Proposed Memorial Tablet to, 36, 115.

 Irish Bacons who Settled at Dedham, Mass., in 1640, 18, 202.

 Irish Blood in American Journalism, Men of, 118.

 Irish Brigade, The, 103.

 Irish Browns of Newport and Providence, R. I., 181.

 Irish Burnsides, The, 187.

 Irish Catholics in Maryland, 63.

 Irish Catholic Nobility and Gentry Imprisoned, 59.

 Irish Catholics, Persecutions inflicted on, 57.

 Irish Celt, The, 103.

 Irish Chapter in the History of Brown University, 180, 203.

 Irish Children Forcibly taken from their Parents, 60.

 Irish Climate and Surroundings, Influence of, 57.

 Irish Coast, Great Storm on the, 64.

 Irish Colony of Refugio, 124, 125, 126.

 Irish Colony of San Patricio, 124, 125, 126.

 Irish Colonies in Texas, 124, 125, 126.

 Irish Commerce, England’s Efforts to Destroy, 62.

 Irish Commiseration for Americans taken Prisoners of war by the
    British, 188.

 Irish Dorrances, The, 152.

 Irish Element among the Founders of Lowell, Mass., 18.

 Irish Element in American History, The, 93.

 Irish Element in the Second Massachusetts Volunteers (war with Spain),
    32, 50, 85.

 Irish Element in the United States, 101, 102, 103.

 Irish Embark at Carrickfergus for the Merrimack, 1636, in ship _Eagle
    Wing_, 64.

 Irish Emigrants set down as “English,” Some, 63.

 Irish Emigration during the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries, 32,
    50, 56, 202.

 Irish Emigration to Spain, 62.

 Irish Estates, Bonus for Confiscation of same to Crown, 59.

 Irish Estates wickedly Confiscated to the British Crown, 58.

 Irish Exodus, Marmion on the, 67.

 Irish flee to Mountains to Escape English Brutalities, 60.

 Irish Heraldry, 212.

 Irish hunted like wild Beasts, 60.

 Irish in America, Splendid Record of, 101.

 Irish in Hampden County, Mass., 15.

 Irish Immigrants who were of English Descent, 67.

 Irish Independence, Struggle for, 199.

 Irish in New Amsterdam, 63.

 Irish in the American Patriot Army, The, 69.

 Irish in the Battle of San Jacinto, 131.

 Irish in the Continental Congress, The, 69.

 Irish in the Revolution and in the Civil War, The, 24.

 Irish in the United States, The, 94.

 Irish in Western Massachusetts, 15, 66.

 Irish Land, British Pretext for Confiscation of, 12, 58.

 Irish Language, The, 67, 89, 180, 227.

 Irish Legion, Corcoran’s, 227.

 Irishman of Waterbury, Conn., An Early, 158.

 Irishmen Driven into Exile, 60.

 Irishmen pass over to the Continent of Europe, 62.

 Irishmen, The United, 66, 109, 138.

 Irishmen, Some Pre-Revolutionary, 32, 50, 71.

 Irish Men, Women, and Children seized and Transported, 65.

 Irish Men, Women, and Children put to the sword by Cromwell, 60.

 Irish Name, The (poem), 50, 91.

 “Irish Ninth” Regiment of Massachusetts, The, 85, 103, 237.

 Irish Parentage, First Child born in Woburn, Mass., of, 19.

 Irish Parliament, The, 181.

 Irish Parliamentary Party, The, 85.

 Irish Patriot Party, The, 159.

 Irish Pedigrees, 187, 228.

 Irish Permitted to locate on the Merrimack, 63.

 Irish People, Inhuman Treatment of the, 58.

 Irish People, Large Emigration of the, 58.

 Irish People, Projected Extermination of the, 59.

 Irish Pioneers and Builders of Kentucky, 203.

 Irish Pioneers and Founders of Peterborough, N. H., 203.

 Irish Pioneers in America, 56.

 Irish Pioneers of Texas, 120.

 Irish Presbyterian Clergy, The, 110.

 Irish Presbyterians, The, 66.

 Irish Presbyterians Oppressed by England, 66.

 Irish Presbyterians who came to America, The, 66.

 Irish Puritans in New England, 65.

 Irish Race in America, The, 94.

 Irish Rebellion of 1798, 78.

 Irish Settlement in Rhode Island, An early, 152.

 Irish Settlers as Bulwarks against the Indians, 60.

 Irish Settler at Barrington, R. I., An, 26, 202.

 Irish Settlers in Colony of De Leon, 124.

 Irish Settlers in Kentucky, 27, 139, 203.

 Irish Settlers in Louisville, Ky., and Vicinity, 22.

 Irish Settlers in New England, 94.

 Irish Settlers in New Hampshire, Early, 146, 147, 148, 149.

 Irish Settlers in New Jersey, 63.

 Irish settlers in Northern New York, 111.

 Irish Settlers in Rhode Island, Early, 22.

 Irish Settlers in Virginia, 161, 203.

 Irish Settlers on American Colonial Frontiers, 60.

 Irish Settlers on Arransas Bay, 124.

 Irish Schoolmasters in the American Colonies, 44.

 Irish Signers of the American Declaration of Independence, 159.

 Irish Signers of the Goliad Declaration of Independence, 125, 126.

 Irish Signers of the Texan Declaration of Independence, 125.

 Irish Society of Lowell, Mass., The, 18.

 Irish Society, The Boston Charitable, 39, 115.

 Irish Soldiers with Gen. George Rogers Clark, 140, 142.

 _Irish Standard_, The Minneapolis, 233.

 Irish, The Colonial, 40.

 Irish Transported to the West Indies, Virginia, and New England, 60,
    64, 65.

 Irish Valor at Marye’s Heights, 103.

 Irish Volunteer Movement, The, 65.

 Irish Washingtons, The, 32, 69.

 Irish Woolen Manufactures destroyed by British Law, 65.

 Iuka, Battle of, 198.


 Jackson, Governor, of Rhode Island, 181.

 Jackson Guards, Disbanded by Governor Gardner of Massachusetts, 236.

 Jackson, Patrick Tracy, a Founder of Lowell, Mass., 167.

 Jackson, President Andrew, 189.

 Jackson, Stephen, of Kilkenny, Ireland, and Providence, R. I., 181.

 Jackson’s Corps, Stonewall, 165.

 Jacobite Order of the White Rose, 230.

 Jamaica, Emigration to, 61.

 James Butler, the Planter of Lancaster, James II appoints Dongan to be
    Governor of New York, 72.

 James Logan, the Associate of William Penn, 63.

 James Nelson, Irish Editor, 109.

 Jefferson Barracks, St. Louis, Mo., 171, 196.

 Jesuit Missionaries, The, 72.

 Jesuit Relations, The, 63.

 Jogues, Father, 63.

 John Clary of Newcastle, N. H., 28.

 John Paul Jones, 39.

 Johns Hopkins University, 14, 43.

 Johnson, Christopher, 74.

 Johnson, Sir Guy, Credited with being the Possessor of a “Genuine rich
    Irish Brogue,” 76.

 Johnson, Sir John, 74.

 Johnson, Sir William, 71, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 83, 84.

 Johnston, Gen. Albert Sydney, 163.

 Johnston, Gen. Joseph E., 163, 199.

 Joyes, Patrick, Settled in Louisville, Ky., 1784, 142.


 Kansas Crusade, The, 238.

 Kearney, Gen. Phil., 135.

 Kearsarge, The U. S. S., 82.

 Keating’s History of Ireland, quoted, 194.

 Kelley, J. D. Jerrold (U. S. N.), 16, 219.

 Kelley, Joseph J., East Cambridge, Mass., 35, 239.

 Keltic Language and Literature, 32.

 Keneshaw Mountain, Battle of, 199.

 Kennedy, Thomas (Kentucky, 1774), 139.

 Kenton, Simon, 139, 143.

 Kentucky, Edward Fitzpatrick of Louisville, 25, 139, 215.

 Kentucky, First State Constitutional Convention of, 14O.

 Kentucky House of Representatives, 140.

 Kentucky, Irish Settlers in, 139.

 Kenton’s Station, Ky., 139, 143.

 Kerry, County of, 239.

 Kiely, Judge Anthony, 164.

 Kilkenny (Ireland), 115, 182, 237.

 Kilroy, Dr. Philip, of Springfield, Mass., 27, 47.

 King George, 170.

 King Philip’s War, 13, 16, 64.

 Kinsale (Ireland), 62, 63.

 Kinsale on the Potomac, 165.

 Knights of Columbus, 218.

 Know-Nothing Administration of Governor Gardner, 236.

 Know-Nothings, The, 126, 236.


 Lake Champlain, Battle of, 178.

 Lake Erie, Battle of, 28, 115, 188.

 Lamson, Col. Daniel S., of Weston, Mass., 15, 220.

 Last Princes of Tara, The, 228.

 Laurel Hill, Va., Battle of, 238.

 Lavaca River, The, 122.

 Lawless, Hon. Joseph T., Secretary of State of Virginia, 10, 23, 161,
    203.

 Lawler, Thomas B., Librarian and Archivist of the Society, 5, 9, 13,
    20, 23, 31, 204, 220.

 Ledwith, Rev. William L., Librarian of the Presbyterian Historical
    Society, Philadelphia, Pa., Letter from, 33.

 Lee, General, quoted by General Robertson with reference to Irish in
    the American Patriot Army, 95.

 Legislature of Massachusetts, 208, 209, 212, 215.

 Legislature of New Hampshire, 206.

 Leland, Writings of, quoted, 59.

 Lenehan, John J., of New York city, 32, 220.

 Lewis Family of Virginia, The, 161, 162.

 Lexington Alarm, The, 107.

 Lexington, Battle of, 18, 19, 34, 104, 106, 107, 108, 109, 112, 113,
    202.

 Lexington, Letter from the Town Clerk and Selectmen of, 33, 112.

 Licking River, The, 139.

 Limerick (Ireland), 15, 77, 190.

 Limerick Schoolmaster, The, 186.

 Lincoln, Abraham, 98.

 Lincoln’s Funeral, Guard of Honor, 199.

 Linehan, Hon. John C., Treasurer-General of the Society; Paper on “Some
    Pre-Revolutionary Irishmen,” 32, 202;
   on “The Irish Pioneers of Texas,” 120, 203;
   Other Mention, 5, 12, 13, 16, 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 34, 36,
      37, 42, 45, 46, 50, 71, 204, 220.

 Linehan, Rev. Timothy P., of Biddeford, Me., 29, 204.

 Linn, Hon. John J., of Texas, 138.

 Lipton, Sir Thomas, Invited to be a Guest of the Society, and His
    Reply, 37, 38.

 Livius, Peter, Royalist Refugee, 78.

 London Guilds, The, 169.

 Londonderry (Ireland), 183.

 Londonderry (N. H.), 147.

 Lone Star State, The, 138.

 Long, Hon. John D., Secretary of the United States Navy, 28.

 Lord Baltimore’s Title Derived from Ireland, 63.

 Lost State of Clark, The, 25.

 Lough Neagh, 149.

 Louisburg, Capture of, 43, 74.

 _Louisville_ (Ky.) _Courier-Journal_, 25.

 Louisville (Ky.), Survey of, 140.

 _Louisville_ (Ky.) _Times_, Article on “Irish Settlers in Louisville
    and Vicinity,” in, 22.

 Lower Dublin, Pa., 183.

 Loyal Legion, Military Order of the, 16, 43, 201, 210, 219.

 Ludwig, William, the Irish Baritone, Sings before the Society, 118.

 Lyon County (Ky.), 141.

 Lyon, Hon. Chittendon, 142.

 Lyon, Hon. Matthew, 141, 142.

 Lyons, Judge Peter, of Virginia, 163.

 Lynch, Aide-de-camp to the Chevalier de Chastellux, 115.

 Lynch, Thomas J., Augusta, Me., 29, 221.

 Lynn, Hon. Wauhope, of New York, 25, 46, 221.

 Lynn, Maj. B. W., of Virginia, 164.


 Macdonough, United States Torpedo-boat Destroyer, 28, 37, 45.

 Machias, Me., The O’Briens of, 35, 59.

 Macroom (Ireland), 193.

 MacSparran, Rev. James, of Rhode Island, 180, 181.

 MacSweeny of Banagh, 193.

 MacSweeny of the Battle Axes, 193.

 MacSweeny of Fanad, 193.

 MacSweeny na D’Tuagh, 197.

 MacSweeny na D’Tuatha, 193.

 MacSweeny of the Territories, 193.

 MacSweenys, Standard Bearers to the O’Donnells, 194.

 MacSweenys Anciently Famous for Hospitality, 194.

 Magill, Col. William, Commanded a Georgia Regiment during the Civil
    War, 178.

 Magills of Florida, The, 178.

 Maginnis, John Sharp (D. D.), of Providence, R. I., and Rochester, N.
    Y., 186.

 Mahone, Gen. William, 164.

 Maine Legislature, 218.

 _Maine_, United States Battleship, Resolution of Sorrow Adopted on the
    Loss of the, 25.

 Malloy, Gen. A. G., of Texas, 137, 222.

 Malvern Hill, Battle of, 44, 237.

 Manning, President, of Rhode Island College, 184, 185.

 “Man Without a Country,” Edward Everett Hale’s, 120.

 Many Irish Emigrate to France, 62.

 Marion and Sumter, 176.

 Marmion on the Irish Exodus, 67.

 Martha Dandridge Custis, 200.

 Mary Dandridge of Virginia, 200.

 Mary Nunn of Cork, Ireland, 186.

 Marye’s Heights, Irish Valor at, 103.

 Maryland, Catholic Irishmen from, at Siege of Boston, 68.

 Maryland, Governor Bradford of, 98.

 Massachusetts Bay, General Court of, 63.

 Massachusetts, Governor Andrew of, 98.

 Massachusetts House of Representatives, 208.

 Massachusetts Legislature, 208, 209, 212, 215, 224, 235, 236, 239.

 Massachusetts Patriots, Honor Roll of, 40.

 Massachusetts Revolutionary Records, 176.

 Massachusetts Superior Court, 210.

 Massachusetts Supreme Court, 215.

 Masters Knox and Crocker, “Natives of Ireland” and Early School
    Teachers in Rhode Island, 182.

 Matthew Thornton, Monument to, 22.

 Matthew Watson, A Settler of Barrington, R. I., 189.

 Maxwell, Gen. William, of the American Revolution, 79, 81.

 May, Henry A., of Roslindale, Mass., a Descendant from James Butler,
    who Immigrated from Ireland in 1653, 19, 222.

 _Mayflower_, John Alden of the, 238.

 _Mayflower_, The, 65, 238.

 Mayor Boyle of Newport, R. I., 25, 38, 40, 116, 205, 207.

 Mayor Crowley of Lowell, Mass., 210.

 Mayor Driscoll of New Haven, Conn., 213.

 Mayor O’Brien of Boston, Mass., 117.

 McAdoo, Gen. A G., of Texas, 137, 222.

 McAdoo, Hon. William, of New Jersey and New York, 17, 42, 51, 100, 102,
    205, 222.

 McCaffrey, Hugh, of Philadelphia, Pa., 17, 232.

 McCarthy, Dr. T. A., of Nashua, N. H., 29.

 McCarthys of Desmond, The, 194.

 McCarty, a Naval Officer who came over with our French Allies in the
    American Revolution, 115.

 McCarty, Captain Page, of Virginia, 165.

 McCarty, Daniel, Speaker of the Virginia House of Burgesses (1715),
    165.

 McCarty of Clenclare, 165.

 McCarty, Major Richard, of the Revolution, 165.

 McClanahan, Colonel, of the Revolution, 165.

 McClellan Rifles, The, 190.

 McCoy, Rev. John J., Chicopee, Mass., 12, 27, 32, 42, 47, 50, 85, 202,
    204.

 McConway, William, of Pittsburg, Pa., 22, 222.

 McCormick, David, of Texas, 127.

 McCracken, the Presbyterian Minister, 109.

 McElroy, James, a Soldier of the Revolution, 81.

 McGee, Thomas D’Arcy, 16, 64.

 McGovern, James, of New York, 32.

 McGuinness, Hon. E. D., of Rhode Island, 17, 105, 191, 223.

 McGuire, Dr. Hunter, of Virginia, 165.

 McKinley, Francis, an Irish Patriot, 79.

 McKinney, Hon. Philip W., Governor of Virginia, 164.

 McManus, Col. John, Providence, R. I., 106, 224.

 McPherson, General, Death of, 199.

 McReynolds, Gen. Andrew, 135.

 Meade, C. H., 18, 19.

 Meade, Gen. George Gordon, 7.

 Meade, Rear-Admiral Richard W., First President-General of the Society,
    7, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 218, 235.

 Meade, Richard W. (Jr.), 19, 20.

 Meagher, General, at Fredericksburg, 187.

 Meath (Ireland), 73, 236.

 Mecklenburg Convention, The, 129.

 Medal of Honor Legion, 43.

 Medina, Colony West of the, 134.

 Merrimack River, Irish Settlement Planned to be Located on, 63.

 Merrimack, N. H., The Thornton Monument at, 22.

 Mexican Army, Gen. T. W. Sweeny is Offered High Rank in, 200.

 Mexicans, Irish Prisoners Held by the, 129.

 Mexican Oppression of the Texans, 125.

 Mexican Patriots, 121.

 Mexican War of Independence, 121.

 Mexican War, The, 95, 134, 135, 194, 195, 197, 201, 222.

 Mexico, City of, 122, 124.

 Miami, Battle on the, 170.

 Michie, Thomas J., of Virginia, 164.

 Military Academy of South Carolina, 178.

 Military Order of the Loyal Legion, 16, 43, 201, 210, 219.

 Miller, Hon. Augustus S., Speaker of the Rhode Island House of
    Representatives, 192.

 Minnesota Historical Society, 104.

 Minute Men at Lexington, Mass., 107.

 Missouri, Territorial Legislature of, 132.

 Mohawks, The, 73.

 Moloney, T. W., of Rutland, Vt., 29, 225.

 Monaghan, Hon. James C., U. S. Consul at Mannheim and Chemnitz, 191.

 Montgomery’s Army, 78.

 Moore, O’Brien, 16, 235.

 More Americans of African Origin in the United States than of direct
    English Descent, 56.

 “Mr. William Barr, an Irishman,” 120.

 Morton, Governor of Indiana, 98.

 Moseley, Edward A., Second President-General of the Society; retiring
    Address of, 53;
   other Mention, 7, 13, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 28, 30, 41, 42, 55, 204,
      225.

 Moses, George H., of the _Concord_ (N. H.) _Monitor_, 12, 225.

 Moylan, Bishop, of Cork, 68.

 Moylan, Gen. Stephen, 30, 43, 68, 233.

 “Mrs. Perry’s Victory,” 188.

 Muhlenberg, General of the Revolution, 69.

 Muldoon, Rev. Father, an Irish Priest, Resident in Mexico, 127.

 Mulholland, Gen. St. Clair A., of Philadelphia, Pa., 10, 22, 225.

 Murphy, Timothy, a Soldier of the Revolution, 81.

 Murray, Thomas Hamilton, Secretary-General of the Society; Annual
    Report of, 42-45;
   Paper on an “Early Irish Settlement in Rhode Island,” 152;
   Paper on “The Irish Chapter in the History of Brown University,” 180.

 Muscovite, Americans’ Debt to the, 99.

 “Myths and Folk Lore of Ireland,” 211.

 “Myths and Folk Tales of the Russians, Western Slavs, and Magyars,”
    211.


 Nantucket, The Ten Purchasers of, 200.

 Napoleon III, Emperor, 99.

 Napper Tandy, the Daring, 109.

 Narragansett Historical Register, 181.

 Narragansett Hotel, Providence, R. I., 26, 44.

 Narragansett, R. I., 180, 183.

 Narragansett, R. I., St. Paul’s Church in, 180.

 National Academy of Design, 10.

 Naval Heroes of the Revolutionary War, 39.

 Navidad and Lavaca Meeting, Irish at the, 128.

 Nelson, Rev. S. Banks Nelson, of Woonsocket, R. I., 105, 108, 205.

 New Amsterdam, Irish in, 63.

 New Bedford, Mass., Public Library, 219.

 Newcastle, N. H., Capture of the Fort at, 77.

 New England Historic-Genealogical Society, 43.

 New England, Irish Transplanted to, 60, 64, 65.

 New England Puritans, The, 64.

 New Hampshire, Fifth Regiment of, 82.

 New Hampshire, First Regiment of (war with Spain), 229.

 New Hampshire, General Court of, 15.

 New Hampshire, Governor and Council of, 38.

 New Hampshire Historical Society, 73.

 New Hampshire Provincial Congress, 77.

 New Hampshire State Library, 17.

 New Hampshire, The Thirteenth Regiment of, 236.

 New Haven, Conn., Reception to Lord Mayor Tallon of Dublin, Ireland,
    and John E. Redmond, M. P., at the Hyperion, 39.

 New Jersey, Irish Settlers in, 63.

 New Mexico, Expedition to, 133.

 Newport Artillery, The, 115.

 Newry (Ireland), 184, 188.

 Newtown, General Sullivan at, 82.

 New York Celtic Medical Society, 229.

 New York City Board of Education, 223.

 New York Dutch, Irish Among the, 63.

 New York Society of the Cincinnati, 235.

 New York Supreme Court, 10, 41.

 New York, The Colony of, 73.

 Nicholas of Russia, Emperor, 173.

 Nineteenth Army Corps Association, 217.

 Nineteenth of April (1775), 19, 202.

 Ninth Connecticut Regiment, 217.

 Ninth Massachusetts Regiment (The “Irish Ninth”), 33, 44, 85, 95, 103,
    237, 238.

 Nixon, Lewis, Builder of the U. S. S. Torpedo-boat _O’Brien_, 35.

 Nolan and Magee, Expeditions into Texas led by, 121.

 Nolan’s Creek and Nolan County (Texas), 121.

 Nolan, Philip, killed in Battle in Texas, 120, 121, 122, 138.

 Northern Antiquarians, Society of, 43.

 Northwest Territory, Conquest of the, 140.

 Nugent, Gen. Robert, 201.

 Nunn, Mary, of Cork, 186.


 O’Bannon, P. H., of Virginia, 164.

 O’Beirne, Gen. James R. of New York, 10, 23, 24, 31, 32, 37, 41, 45,
    46, 50, 51, 204.

 O’Brien, Capt. John, of the _Hibernia_, ship of war, 83.

 O’Brien, Fitz James, the Talented, 190.

 O’Brien, Hon. Hugh, Mayor of Boston, Mass., 117, 226.

 O’Brien, Rev. Michael, of Lowell, Mass., 17, 226.

 _O’Brien_, U. S. Torpedo-boat, 28, 34, 35, 37, 45, 104, 115.

 O’Briens of Machias, The, 18.

 O’Briens of Maine, The, 18, 83.

 O’Connell, Daniel, the Irish Leader, 90.

 O’Connell, J. D., of Washington, D. C., 54, 204, 227.

 Odin, Rev. John Murray, Ordained Bishop of Galveston, Texas, 136.

 O’Donoju, Gen. Count, 123, 124.

 O’Dowd, Michael, of Manchester, N. H., 29, 227.

 O’Driscoll, Daniel M., of Charleston, S. C., 176, 203, 227.

 O’Driscolls of Baltimore, The, 178.

 O’Ferrall, Hon. Charles T., Governor of Virginia, 164.

 O’Hart’s Irish Pedigrees, 187, 228.

 Ohio Campaign, The (1754-’55), 161.

 Ohio River, The, 140, 141.

 O’Keefe, Edmund, of New Bedford, Mass., 27, 49, 106, 116, 228.

 O’Killia, David, a Settler on Cape Cod, Mass., as early as 1657, 13,
    43, 210.

 “Old Master” Kelly, an Irish Schoolmaster in Rhode Island, 181, 188.

 O’Malley, Thomas F., of Somerville, Mass, 40, 106, 111, 205, 228.

 O’Neal, Hon. Emmet, of Alabama, 13.

 O’Neill, Capt. “Bucky,” of the “Rough Riders,” 52.

 O’Neills and O’Donnells, The, 169.

 O’Neills of Ulster, The, 74.

 Ophthalmological Society of New England, 220.

 Orange Society, The, 110.

 Order of the White Rose, 230.

 O’Reilly, John Boyle, quoted, 85.

 O’Sullivan, Major Philip, a Defender of Limerick, 77.

 O’Sullivan, Owen, a New Hampshire School-teacher, 77.


 Palmer, Barnabas, of Rochester, N. H., 15.

 Palmer, Rev. Edmund B., a Descendant of the Above, 15.

 Papyrus Club, Boston, 43.

 Parkman, Francis, 72.

 Parish of Kilmurry (Ireland), 193.

 Parish of Moviddy (Ireland), 193.

 Parnell, 85, 90.

 Parnell Investigation, The, 85.

 Patrick Clark, “Who Came from Ireland,” 87.

 Patrick Henry, 200.

 Patriot Army, Irish in the American, 95.

 Pawtucket, R. I., Meeting and Banquet at, 22.

 Pejepscot Historical Society, 104.

 Pelham, N. H., The Butler Monument at, 19.

 Penn, William (in Ireland), 63.

 Pennsylvania, Governor Hastings of, 18.

 Pennsylvania Historical Society, 104.

 Pennsylvania, Irish Settlers in, 68, 111.

 Pepper, Rev. George W., of Cleveland, Ohio, 10, 36, 239.

 Pepperill, Sir William, 15.

 Perry, Commodore O. H., 28, 115.

 Perry, Matthew, 115.

 Peterborough, N. H., Irish Pioneers of, 145.

 Phelan, Edmund, of Boston, Mass., 39, 239.

 Phelan, John, An Early Schoolmaster in Providence, R. I., 182.

 Phi Kappa Sigma Fraternity, 217.

 Philip Nolan, Explorer of Texas, 120, 138.

 Philippines, The, 34, 35.

 Phil. Sheridan, 90.

 _Pilot_, The _Boston_, 6, 9, 24, 42, 50, 115, 230.

 Pittsburg Landing, 197.

 Point Pleasant, battle at, 161.

 Poor, Gen. Enoch, 79, 81.

 Portland, Me., Meeting at, 21.

 _Preble_, United States Sloop-of-war, 235.

 Prendergast’s “Cromwellian Settlement of Ireland,” 64.

 Presbyterian Historical Society, Philadelphia, Pa., 33, 104.

 Presbyterian Synods in Kentucky, 140.

 Presbyterians, English Oppression of the Irish, 66.

 Presbyterians, The Irish, Who Came to America, 66.

 President-General Moseley’s Retiring Address, 51.

 President Wayland of Brown University, 189.

 Preston Family of Virginia, The, 162, 163.

 Pretext for General Confiscation of Land in Ireland, 58.

 Prince Gortschakoff of Russia, 99.

 Princes of Tara, The Last, 228.

 Prison Journal of Stephen Austin, 127.

 Prison Ship _Torbay_, The, 177.

 Pritchard, William, of South Carolina, 178.

 Proctor, Col. Thomas, of the Revolution, 81.

 Province of Ulster, Immigration to the United States from the, 100.

 _Providence_ (R. I.) _Gazette_, quoted, 154.

 Providence, R. I., Meetings at, 26, 34.

 Provincial Records, The, 75.

 Puritans, The New England, 64.

 Putnam, General, of the Revolution, 20, 158.


 Quinton, Maj. William (U. S. A.), 35.

 “Quo Vadis,” Jeremiah Curtin, the Translator of, 97, 211.

 Quitman, Gen. John A. (U. S. A.), 195.


 Randolph, John, 162.

 Rathbun, Matilda, 156.

 Rathmullen, Castle at, 193.

 Reagan, Hon. John H., of Texas, 135, 137.

 Rear Admiral Belknap, U. S. N., 21, 204.

 Rear Admiral Meade, U. S. N., 7, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 218, 235.

 Rebellion of 1641, The, 58.

 Reception to the Society by Hon. John D. Crimmins, 52.

 Reception to the Society by Hon. Theodore Roosevelt, 51, 52.

 Redmond, Hon. John E. (M. P.). 39.

 Red River, Texas, 132.

 Refugio, Irish Colony of, 124, 125, 126, 130, 131, 132, 136.

 Reilly, Terence, An Early Providence Schoolmaster, 182.

 “Reminiscences of Fifty Years in Texas,” 138.

 Republic of Mexico, 121.

 _Republican_, Tribute to the Society by the Springfield, Mass., 14, 15.

 Resaca, Battle of, 199.

 Revolutionary Records of Massachusetts, 176.

 Revolution, Sons of the, 20, 230.

 Revolution, Sons of the American, 20, 230.

 Revolution, The American, 10, 16, 20, 30, 40, 73, 76, 77, 78, 94, 107,
    111, 177, 180, 182, 188.

 Rhode Island, Battle on the Island of (1778), 116.

 Rhode Island College, 153, 154, 181, 182, 183, 184, 185.

 Rhode Island, Educational History of, 180.

 Rhode Island, Governor Davis of, 224.

 Rhode Island, Governor Dyer of, 23, 213.

 Rhode Island Historical Society, 217.

 Rhode Island House of Representatives, 23, 154, 202, 209, 216, 231.

 Rhode Island, Irish Schoolmasters in, 180.

 Rhode Island State Record Commissioner, 116.

 Rhode Island Supreme Court, 23, 26.

 Rhode Island, The Island of, 186.

 Rhode Island History, Women in, 188.

 Rhode Islanders, Fine Colonial, 23.

 Richardson, Stephen J., of New York City, 34, 105, 106, 205.

 Riely, Hon. John W., of Virginia, 164.

 Riley, Gen. Bennett, Military Governor of California, 196.

 Riley, James Whitcomb, 30.

 Rio Janeiro, Naval Entertainment and Ball at, 196.

 Robert Emmet, 10, 42, 90, 110.

 Robert Morris of the Revolution, 68.

 Roberts, Hon. William R., United States Minister to Chili, 200.

 Robertson, John Mackinnon, Address to the Society, 23.

 Robertson, Major-General, on the Composition of the American Patriot
    Army, 95.

 Roche, James Jeffrey, of Boston, Mass., 5, 9, 13, 20, 21, 22, 26, 28,
    30, 31, 32, 37, 42, 47, 50, 89, 106, 115, 117, 203, 204, 230.

 Roger Williams of Rhode Island, 89.

 Rome Cross Roads, Action at, 199.

 Rooney, John Jerome, of New York City, 50, 91, 205.

 Roosevelt, Hon. Theodore, of New York, 14, 32, 41, 43, 44, 51, 52, 205,
    230.

 Roscommon (Ireland), 238.

 Ross, Lawrence Sullivan, Governor of Texas, 131, 135.

 _Rosary Magazine_, The, 17, 228.

 Rough Riders, The, 52.

 Rourke, Joseph, A Soldier of the Revolution, 158, 159, 160.

 Royal Historical Society, England, 230.

 Royal Italian Heraldic Academy, 230.

 Royal Society of Northern Antiquarians, 230.

 Ruff’s Mills, Action at, 199.

 Ruggles, Henry Stoddard, of Wakefield, Mass., 40, 230.

 Rutland County (Vt.), Medical and Surgical Society, 217, 238.

 Russia, Emperor Nicholas of, 173.

 Russian and British Empires, The, 97.

 Russian Engineer Corps, The, 174.

 Ryan of Philadelphia, Archbishop, 201.


 Salisbury Beach, Mass., 21.

 San Antonio, 123, 132, 138.

 Sanders, Col. C. C., of Gainesville, Ga., 231.

 San Felipe, Consultation at, 129.

 San Jacinto, Battle of, 129, 130, 131.

 San Juan, Battle of, 85, 88.

 San Patricio, Irish Colony of, 124, 125, 126, 129, 130, 131. 132, 136.

 San Remo Hotel, Meeting and Banquet at, 24.

 Santa Anna, 127, 131.

 Santa Fé, Ancient Town of, 128.

 Santiago de Cuba, 43, 44, 85, 88, 103, 237.

 Sarah Alexander, of Newry, Ireland, 188.

 Saratoga, Battle of, 112.

 Scannell, Rev. Denis, of Worcester, Mass., 36, 239.

 Schofield, Gen. J. M., 201.

 “Scotch-Irish” Shillobeth, The, 30, 44, 53, 57, 65, 66, 89, 90, 137,
    140, 141, 165, 166, 203.

 Scott, Gen. Winfield, 171, 196.

 Scully, Martin, of Waterbury, Conn., 158.

 Second Army Corps (Civil War), 235.

 Second Kansas Regiment (Civil War), 197.

 Second Massachusetts Volunteers (war with Spain), 85, 202.

 Second United States Infantry, 196.

 Secretary-General Murray’s Annual Report, 42.

 Selleck, David, Engaged in Transporting Irish Men, Women, and Children
    to America (1653), 65.

 Seizure of the Powder at Fort William and Mary, 18, 77, 202.

 Seventeenth Army Corps (Civil War), 199.

 Seventh New York Regiment, 190.

 _Shamrock_, Sir Thomas Lipton’s Yacht, 37, 38.

 Shannon to the Tiber, 103.

 Sharpsburg, Battle of, 178.

 Sherman, Gen. W. T., 197, 201.

 Sherry’s, New York City, Meeting and Banquet at, 31, 41, 46.

 Shields, Gen. James, 135, 195.

 Shiloh, Battle of, 197, 198.

 Ship _Eagle Wing_, The (1636), 64.

 Shirley, Governor, 76.

 Sienkiewicz, Henryk, 97.

 Sigel, Gen. F., 197, 201.

 Silver Tankard, Major Dorrance and the, 156, 157.

 Simon Butler, The Memorable, 109.

 Sir Thomas Lipton, 37, 38.

 Six Nations, The, 71, 72, 73, 74.

 Sioux Nation, Great Treaty with, 196.

 Sixteenth Army Corps (Civil War), 198.

 Sixteenth Massachusetts Regiment, 15.

 Sixteenth United States Infantry, 197.

 Sixty-ninth Regiment, New York, 44, 222.

 Sketch of an Early Irish Settlement in Rhode Island, 152, 203.

 “Sketches of Barrington, R. I.,” 189.

 Slattery, William, of Holyoke, Mass., 36, 239.

 Sloane, Prof. William M., 14.

 Sloop-of-war _Eureka_, 122.

 Sloop-of-war _Preble_, 235.

 Smith, Rev. Hezekiah, 185.

 Smith, Joseph, of Lowell, Mass, Letter from Jeremiah Curtin to, 97;
   Pro-Boer Resolutions by, 118, 119;
   Paper on “The Whistlers” by, 167;
   Other Mention, 5, 10, 12, 13, 18, 20, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 34, 37, 42,
      46, 47, 50, 94, 106, 111, 116, 117, 202, 203, 204, 231.

 Smith’s History of Cork, quoted, 193.

 Snake Creek “Gap,” General Sweeny Takes Possession of, 198.

 Society of the Cincinnati, 14, 43, 235.

 Society of Colonial Wars, 16, 20.

 Some Irish Settlers in Virginia, 161, 203.

 Some Pre-Revolutionary Irishmen, 32, 71, 202.

 Sons of the American Revolution, 16, 20, 230.

 Sons of the Revolution, 20, 43, 230.

 South African Republics, 119.

 South Carolina, Military Academy of, 178.

 Southern Associated Press, The, 238.

 Southwest Expedition, The, 197.

 Spain, Irish Emigration to, 62.

 Spain, The American War with, 43, 52, 85, 95.

 Springfield (Mass.), _Republican_, 14, 15.

 Stark, Gen. John, 82.

 Starvation, Multitudes of Irish Die of, 60.

 State Library of New Hampshire, 17.

 Steele, Thomas, An Irish Settler of New Hampshire, 147.

 Stiness, Hon. John H., of Rhode Island, 23, 26.

 Stonewall Jackson’s Corps, 165.

 St. Brendan, Reputed Discoverer of America, 90.

 St. Clair, General, 169, 170.

 St. Francis Xavier’s College, 237.

 _St. Louis Republic_, The, 225.

 St. Gaudens, Augustus, 10, 13, 232.

 St. Patrick’s Mission to Ireland, 186.

 St. Paul’s Church in Narragansett, 180.

 St. Petersburg (Russia), Governor Curtin in, 99.

 St. Philip’s Churchyard, Charleston, S. C., 177.

 Sullivan, Gov. James, 16, 186.

 Sullivan. Capt. John, of the Thirteenth New Hampshire Regiment, 80.

 Sullivan, Gen. John, 16, 18, 27, 36, 37, 71, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82,
    84, 186, 202, 203.

 Sullivan, Hon. John H., Boston, Mass., 33, 238.

 _Sunday Democrat_, The, New York, 233.

 Sweeny, Gen. William T., 193, 197, 201.

 Sweeny, William Montgomery, of Astoria, L. I., N. Y., 193.

 Swords Family in Ireland, The, 24.

 Swords, Francis Dawson, of the Revolution, 10.

 Swords, Joseph F., 10, 13, 14, 24.

 Symposium in Boston _Sunday Globe_, 26.


 “Taking up with the Irishy,” 67.

 Tara, The Last Princes of, 228.

 Taylor, Capt. Joseph (U. S. N.), 177.

 Tennessee, Army of the, 197, 198, 199, 210.

 Tennessee River, Headwaters of, 166.

 Tenth Rhode Island Volunteers, 191.

 Tenth United States Infantry, 21, 29, 30, 44, 237.

 Texan Cause, The, 130.

 Texan Declaration of Independence, Irish Signers of, 125.

 Texan Ministers to the United States, 133.

 Texan Navy, Irish Officers in, 132, 133.

 Texan Republic, First Congress of, 131.

 Texan Republic, The, 124, 131.

 _Texas Advocate_, The, 136.

 Texas Conventions, Delegates to, 128.

 Texas Historical Society, 127, 136, 137.

 _Texas Register, The Telegraph and_, 136.

 _Texas Republican_, The, 136.

 _Texas Scrap Book_, The, 128, 137.

 _Texas Sentinel_, The, 136.

 _Texas_, The Battleship, 16, 17, 219, 223.

 Texas, United States Minister to, 133.

 Thayer, Hon. Eli, of Worcester, Mass., 26, 33, 238.

 The “Doomed Seventeen,” 133.

 “The Good Father Muldoon,” 127.

 “The Great Cryptogram,” 17.

 The Irishman Ethnologically Considered, 19.

 “The Irish Ninth,” Massachusetts Regiment, 33, 44, 85, 95, 103, 237,
    238.

 The _Irish Standard_, Minneapolis, Minn., 233.

 The “Ten Purchasers of Nantucket,” 200.

 “The Saxon and the Celt,” 23.

 The West Coast Irishman, 62.

 Thompson, Robert Ellis, of Philadelphia, Pa., 9, 13, 232.

 Thornton, Capt. James, 82.

 Thornton, Matthew, 22.

 Three Thousand Heads of Irish Families Imprisoned, Charged with
    Treason, 59.

 Thousands of Irish Emigrate to Continental Europe, 61.

 Tierney, Myles, of New York City, 33, 232.

 Timon, Rev. Father, 136.

 Tobin, Capt. John M., of Boston, Mass., 31, 237.

 Todd, Andrew, an Irish Settler of New Hampshire, 147.

 “To Hell or Connaught,” 110.

 _Torbay_, The British Prison-ship, 177.

 Tower Hill, R. I., 181, 188.

 Transvaal Republic, 37.

 Travers, Francis C., of New York City, 10, 45, 48.

 Trinity Church, Newport, R. I., 115, 181.

 Trinity College, Dublin, 162, 181.

 “Turk’s Head,” in Providence, R. I., 153.

 Twenty-eighth Massachusetts Regiment, 235.

 Twenty-fourth Georgia Regiment, 231.

 Twenty-second United States Infantry, 87, 88.

 Tyrone (Ireland), 146, 147.


 Ulster, The Irish Province of, 66, 67, 74, 100, 140, 168, 169.

 United Irishmen, The, 66, 109, 138, 162.

 United States Army, 31, 82, 87, 88, 121, 162, 195, 196, 197, 200, 237.

 United States, Constitution of the, 15.

 United States Navy, 7, 16, 17, 21, 25, 28, 35, 37, 51, 100, 177, 178,
    208, 217, 219, 222, 223.

 United States Navy Department Acknowledges Resolutions of Sorrow
    Adopted by the Society on the Loss of the U. S. S. _Maine_, 25.

 United States, The Irish in the, 94.

 United States Treasury Department, 227.

 United States War Department, 35, 210, 223, 229.

 University of Notre Dame, 14, 43, 225.

 University of Pennsylvania, 14, 43, 232.

 University of Vermont, 27, 33, 43, 237, 238.

 University of Virginia, 43, 163.

 University of Washington, 36.

 Updikes of Rhode Island, The, 182.


 Van Buren, Ex-President Martin, 195.

 Van Shaak, Peter, 74.

 Valley Forge, 113.

 Velasco, Battle of, 127.

 Vermont, Dr. John D. Hanrahan of Rutland, 10, 29, 217.

 Vermont, Dr. William F. Cummings of Rutland, 33, 238.

 Vermont, University of, 27, 33, 43, 237, 238.

 Vernon, Captain (1653), 64, 65.

 Vernon, Samuel B., of Brown University, 186.

 Vera Cruz, bombardment of, 195.

 “Virginia and Virginians,” 163.

 Virginia Bar Association, 164.

 Virginia, Five Governors of, 163.

 Virginia House of Burgesses, 165.

 Virginia House of Delegates, 164.

 Virginia, Irish Settlers in, 63, 161, 203.

 Virginia _Law Register_, 164.

 Virginia, Secretary of State Lawless of, 23, 160, 220.

 Virginia Supreme Court, 164.

 Virginia, The Eighth Regiment of, 69.

 Virginia, The Lewis Family of, 161, 162.

 Virginia, University of, 43, 163.

 Volunteer Movement, The Irish, 65.


 Walker, Miss Annetta O’Brien, of Portland, Me., 35.

 Walker, Gen. Francis A., 14.

 Walsh, Henry Collins, A Descendant of General Moylan of the Revolution,
    30.

 Waller, Ex-Governor of Connecticut, 24, 233.

 Walsh, Hon. Patrick, of Augusta, Ga., 10, 14, 33, 238.

 Waltham, Mass., Public Library, 209.

 War of 1812, A Romance of the, 36.

 War of 1812, The, 36, 95, 178.

 War with Mexico, 95.

 Ward, Capt. T. W., Commanded an Artillery Company at the Capture of San
    Antonio, Texas, 126.

 Warner, Writings of, quoted, 59.

 Warren, Admiral Sir Peter, 74, 183.

 Warren, Anne, 73, 74.

 Warren, Michael, 74.

 Washington and Kent Counties, R. I., 182.

 Washington and Lee University, 14.

 Washington’s Army Before Boston, 68.

 Washington, A “Sojourner” Named, 70.

 Washington, Gen. George, 68, 69, 78, 118, 200, 235.

 Washington, George, of Dublin, Ireland, 32, 69.

 Washington Light Infantry of Charleston, S. C., 178.

 Washington Memorial Day, 104.

 Washingtons, The Irish, 32, 69.

 Waterbury, Conn., An Early Irishman of, 158.

 Waterbury (Conn.), _Daily Democrat_, 158, 221, 222.

 Waterford (Ireland), 183, 184, 237.

 Waterman, Susan, of Providence, R. I., 181.

 Watson, Matthew, An Irish Settler (1722), of Barrington, R. I., 26,
    189, 202.

 Wayne, General Anthony, 139.

 Wells, Susanna Dorrance, of Rhode Island, 156.

 Welsh, Dr. Thomas, Mentioned at the Time of the Lexington Alarm, 107.

 Western Massachusetts, Irish Settlers in, 15, 66.

 West, George J., of Providence, R. I., 191.

 West India Islands, 61.

 Westmeath (Ireland), 74, 184.

 West Point, 171.

 White, Patrick, a New Hampshire Settler, 148.

 White Rose, Jacobite Order of the, 230.

 Whistler Family, The, 167, 203.

 Whitman, Miss Polly, of Providence, R. I., 153.

 Wicklow, Irish County of, 141.

 Wilderness, Battle of the, 44, 237, 238.

 William of Orange, 65.

 William III, 108.

 William Penn in Ireland, 63.

 Williams, Alfred, of Providence, R. I., 89.

 Williams, Prof. Alonzo, of Brown University, 26, 44, 204.

 Williams, Roger, of Rhode Island, 89.

 Wilkinson, Ezra, a Student at Brown University, 186.

 Wilson’s Creek, Battle of, 197.

 Witherspoon, John, the Signer, 70.

 Woburn, Mass., First Child of Irish Parents Born in, 19.

 Wolfe Tavern, The, Newburyport, Mass., 21.

 Wolfe Tone, The Chivalrous, 90, 190.

 Worcester, Mass., Public Library, 221.


 Yarmouth, Mass., Records, 13.

 Yuma Indian War, 196.


  EDITOR’S NOTE: To the membership roll herein contained should be
  added the names: James McGovern, New York City, John E. Maguire,
  Haverhill, Mass., and John Goggin, Nashua, N. H. In answer to
  inquiries, I desire to state that the edition of Vol. I of the
  JOURNAL has been exhausted. A second edition of the same may be
  issued later when the funds of the Society warrant. It will be
  noticed that each volume is complete and independent in itself. New
  members who have not Vol. I, will find in the Chronological Record
  in the present volume a comprehensive outline of the work thus far
  done by the Society.

-----

Footnote 1:

    It was so thought at the time of this meeting, but the launching
    has been unavoidably delayed.

Footnote 2:

  Thomas D’Arcy McGee in his “History of the Irish Settlers in North
  America” says that “in 1636, the _Eagle Wing_, with one hundred and
  forty passengers, sailed from Carrickfergus to found an Irish colony
  on the Merrimac, but had to put back owing to stress of weather, and
  the project was for many years abandoned.”

Footnote 3:

  See “The Irish Washingtons at Home and Abroad; together with Some
  Mention of the Ancestry of the American Pater Patriæ. By George
  Washington of Dublin, Ireland, and Thomas Hamilton Murray, Boston,
  Mass.” Boston: The Carrollton Press, 1898.

Footnote 4:

  Assistant Secretary of the U. S. Navy under President Cleveland.

Footnote 5:

  Of the staff of the Louisville _Daily Times_.

Footnote 6:

  This article comprises an address delivered by Mr. Brennan on the
  occasion of the 150th anniversary of Peterborough. Mr. Brennan is our
  Society’s state vice-president for New Hampshire.

Footnote 7:

  Judge Nathaniel Holmes, Cambridge, Mass.

Footnote 8:

  Hon. John R. Miller.

Footnote 9:

  Gen. Daniel M. White.

Footnote 10:

  Prof. Nathaniel H. Morison, Provost of Peabody Institute, Baltimore,
  Md.

Footnote 11:

  Rev. John H. Morison, D. D.

Footnote 12:

  Col. Charles Scott.

Footnote 13:

  Staff of the _Waterbury Daily Democrat_.

Footnote 14:

  Secretary of State, Virginia.

Footnote 15:

  A Lieut. David Hamilton is mentioned in the Revolutionary records of
  Massachusetts; also at the national capital in the official records of
  that period.

Footnote 16:

  Brown University is located in Providence, R. I.

Footnote 17:

  This membership roll is brought down to February, 1900.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. The Table of Contents was created by the transcriber.
 2. P. 256, changed “Sanders, Col. C. C., of Gainesville, Ga.” to
      “Sanders, Col. C. C., of Gainesville, Ga., 231.”.
 3. Silently corrected typographical errors and also variations in
      spelling.
 4. Retained anachronistic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as
      printed.
 5. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 6. Enclosed bold font in =equals=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of the American-Irish
Historical Society (Vol. II), by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF AMERICAN-IRISH HIST. SOC., VOL 2 ***

***** This file should be named 58485-0.txt or 58485-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/8/4/8/58485/

Produced by Richard Tonsing, Larry B. Harrison and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net
(This book was produced from images made available by the
HathiTrust Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

